






2012 | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2012 






2012














2012











LanguagesLanguage RequirementPlacement ExamMajors and MinorsFacultyCoursesOnline ResourcesOn-Campus ResourcesLC CommonsStudy AbroadNews and ResearchClubsContact UsAlumniStudent ActivitiesKalliope











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2012 












Faculty Research ~ 2012

November 26, 2012 - Dr. , associate professor of Russian and director of the Language Learning Center, is quoted in an article in the Lehigh Valley Marketplace about "Christmas Around the World." Read More November 16-17, 2012 - Flor Maria Buitrago and Mirna Trauger, lecturers in Spanish, attended the Annual American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) conference in Philadelphia, PA. where they were invited to participate in a focus group of a new Spanish conversation program "Relacionate."              November 8-11, 2012 - Dr. Eileen McEwan, associate professor of French, presented a paper at the American Council for Québec Studies (ACQS) international conference in Sarasota, Florida. The paper was entitled: "The Politics of French: Speeches made to Franco-American communities in New England during the 20th century."  November 1-6, 2012 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, held on-campus training sessions for students to use their Spanish skills as Poll Interpreters on Election Day. Fourteen Muhlenberg Spanish students, under her direction, served as translators at Allentown polling places during this year's presidential election on November 6th. An excellent opportunity to put their language skills to practical use while providing an important civic service. October 2, 2012 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, gave a talk at Northampton Community College on recent developments in immigration law. With two immigration attorneys, she gave an overview of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and explained the process for requesting relief for young undocumented immigrants.
September 19-22, 2012 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, led a workshop at the XXIII Congreso Internacional de ASELE conference in Girona, Spain. "Planchado pero no blanqueado: Lecciones para el espanol multicultural (Ironed but not bleached: Lessons in Multicultural Spanish)" offered tools for navigating ethnic and racial issues and terminology in the second language classroom.
June 29, 2012 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, organized and hosted a workshop on the new opportunities for DREAM Act-eligible young people recently announced by President Obama. The event was held St. Luke's Lutheran Church. The English video is here: Read More
May 3, 2012 - , associate professor of Russian, presented a paper entitled "Engaging Students beyond the Classroom: Instructor as Moderator and Guide on Facebook"; at the NEALLT 2012 Conference at Carnegie Mellon University. The conference theme this year was "Teacher Roles and Practices in Technology-Enhanced Instruction". Read More  March 24, 2012 - Mirna Trauger, lecturer in Spanish, received the James Street Prize for the best article submitted for publication in the current volume of the MACLAS journal, Latin American Essays, titled "El cuerpo y su conceptualización posmoderna en Pájaros de la playa." The award was presented at the annual conference at American University, Washington D.C. March 22-24, 2012 - Dr. Joan Marx , professor of Spanish and department chair, presented the paper "Writing the Jewish Diaspora in Argentine Literature: Memory and Exile in the Works of Kozameh, Roffé, and Salganicoff" at the 33rd annual Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies Conference on "Latin America: Hopes, Dreams and Reality after the Washington Consensus" at American University, Washington D.C. Dr. Marx also served as the moderator of two panels: "Conflict and Violence in Literature," and "From Cuba's 'Special Period' to the 21st Century in Literature."
March 22-24, 2012 - Mirna Trauger, lecturer in Spanish, presented the paper "El desenmascaramiento de creencias culturales y estereotipos en En el tiempo de las Mariposas de Julia Álvarez y La casa de la laguna de Rosario Ferré" at the 33rd annual Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies Conference at American University, Washington D.C. February 28, 2012 - Flor Maria Buitrago, lecturer in Spanish, was an invited guest lecturer at the Martindale Center at Lehigh University. Her talk was entitled "Colombia, a Country of Great Economical Possibilities." She emphasized on Colombian culture, history and economics. This lecture was to prepare the MBA students for their trip to Colombia in May 2012.  February 24, 2012 - Dr. Eileen McEwan, assistant professor of French, presented a paper entitled "Integration and Language in the works of Marie-Celie Agnant and Abla Farhoud" at the international Women in French conference in Tempe, Arizona. January 30, 2012 - Dr. Eileen McEwan was awarded tenure and promoted to associate professor of French by the Board of Trustees. Congratulations & kudos for her hard work and her dedication to the College and her students!    January, 2012 - Dr. Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian, had a book chapter entitled "Imagined Identities: An Examination of Self-Authorship on Facebook" accepted for publication in the ISLS Volume 3 of "Readings in Language Studies."
January, 2012 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, and her class, "Spanish for the Community," were pictured and featured in the January-February issue 101 of the La Voz Latina. The class helps interpret for local residents. La Voz Latina is a major Spanish publication in the Lehigh Valley and throughout the state. January 6, 2012 - Dr. Eduardo Olid, assistant professor of Spanish, presented "Cervantes in Twenty-First-Century United States Theater" to the Cervantes Society of America at the Modern Language Association Convention in Seattle, Wa.
                          
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















