






2008 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and ResearchNews/Events Archive2008 






2008













2008











LanguagesLanguage RequirementPlacement ExamMajors and MinorsFacultyCoursesOnline ResourcesOn-Campus ResourcesLC CommonsStudy AbroadNews and ResearchClubsContact UsAlumniStudent ActivitiesKalliope











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and ResearchNews/Events Archive2008 













Faculty News & Research ~ 2008

November 2008 - Eileen McEwan, assistant professor of French, presented a paper titled "Moi et les autres: Language and Identity in Migrant Quebecois Literature" at the international conference for the American Council for Quebec Studies in Quebec City.
October 2008 - Drs. Kathleen Harring, Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French and Director of the Faculty Center for Teaching, and Kathryn Wixon, professor of French and Director of the French Program, attended the annual POD (Professional and Organizational Development Network in Higher Education) conference held in Reno, Nevada, October 22-25, 2008.
August 2008 - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, led the teacher training for the Elementary Spanish instructors at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa. The special focus of this year's training was the effective use of technology in and out of the language classroom. Under the title, the workshop "Lo que no puede la tecnología. y lo que sí: La nueva pedagogía comunicativa" sought to develop a practical understanding of the instructor's key role in a communicative language classroom.
May 2008 - Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and Director of the LC Commons, had a book chapter entitled “Research-based Listening Tasks for Video Comprehension” published in the “Handbook of Research on Computer Enhanced Language Acquisition and Learning." Felicia Zhang & Beth Barber(Eds.), Information Science References, NY. To view the chapter, click here.
April 17-19, 2008 - Joan F. Marx, professor of Spanish, presented the paper, "Transformation and Restoration: Identity and Exile in Demetria Martinez 'Lengua madre'," at the 61st Annual Kentucky Foreign Language Conference at the University of Kentucky.
April 2008 - Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French and Director, Faculty Center for Teaching, presented a paper at a conference at Hofstra University called "Humor in Romance Literatures." The paper was titled "Laughing at Learned Women in the Late Medieval French Farce." She reports that no one laughed at her presentation (except when she was hoping they would!).
March 18-20, 2008 - Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and Director of the LC Commons, presented her paper "CALL Design & Video Comprehension: Insight from Research & Practice" at the CALICO with IALLT 25th Annual Conference hosted by the University of San Francisco. She moderated "Emerging Digital Media for Language Learning" and attended the workshop "Virtual Worlds in Second Life: The Reality of Language Learning."
March 2008 - Mirna Trauger, visiting lecturer of Spanish, presented the paper, "La redefinición de la puertorriqueñidad a través de la fotografía en La llegada de José Luis González," at the MACLAS XXIX Conference, "Beyond Borders: New Collaborations," at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. She was also the advisor for Jamie Schneider '08 and Drew Krumholz '08 who also presented at the MACLAS Conference at UMBC. Schneider presented a paper and documentary titled: "Equality for All Amigos: The Representation of Latinos in American Media." Krumholz presented a paper titled: "Understanding the Maya-Quiché Popol Vuh Through the Hindu Puranas."
March 2008 - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, was featured in the media. In "Protegiendo los derechos y compartiendo información entre inmigrantes," El Hispano's reporter Jim Smith describes the second of three training sessions she organized to mobilize immigrants to advocate on their own behalf.
March 2008 - Joan F. Marx, professor of Spanish, presented the paper "The Political Discourses of Memory and Exile in Volando bajito by Alicia Partnoy," at the MACLAS XXIX Conference, "Beyond Borders: New Collaborations," at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. She also served as the moderator of a panel: "Mapping Nature, Culture, and Power: Issues in Latin American Environmental History" at the same conference.
March 2008 - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, was featured in an article in the Spanish-language press. In "Los indocumentados,"   El Torero's weekly editorial column praises her work with immigrant communities, including undocumented immigrants.
February 2008 - Joan F. Marx, professor of Spanish, presented the paper "La represion politica y la liberacion de la memoria en Para que no me olvides de Marcela Serrano," at the VII Congreso Int'l de Literatura Hispanica in Cusco, Peru. She was also "moderadora" of her session: "El mundo latinoamericano presentado por voces femeninas contemporaneas."
January 2008 - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, gave a 2-part introduction to faith-based approaches to immigration and immigration reform at the Church of the Mediator. These talks were part of a continuing series of community education for dialog and positive change.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















