






2011 | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2011 






2011














2011











LanguagesLanguage RequirementPlacement ExamMajors and MinorsFacultyCoursesOnline ResourcesOn-Campus ResourcesLC CommonsStudy AbroadNews and ResearchClubsContact UsAlumniStudent ActivitiesKalliope











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2011 












Faculty Research ~ 2011

November 18-19, 2011 - Mirna Trauger and Flor Maria Buitrago, lecturers in Spanish, attended the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) conference in Denver, Colorado. They presented a paper titled "Ways of Incorporating Artistic Expression and Humor in the Intermediate Spanish Classroom." They also participated in a focus group on the subject of Project Based Learning. View Photos
October, 2011 - Helen Bachochin, lecturer in Spanish, has created a blog using Blackboard to provide language practice and discussion for her Intermediate Spanish I students. Professor Bachochin has asked her students to explain their experiences related to weekly chapter topics. Students are encouraged to practice informal written expression using pertinent vocabulary. Professor Bachochin plans to later post articles and videos from Spanish news for student debate. She has used her own comments to model correct grammar and to encourage interaction between students. The members of Intermediate Spanish I have reported that they enjoy this informal and enjoyable opportunity to practice writing in Spanish. Quoted in the Teaching and Technology, Muhlenberg College, Instructional Design Newsletter (Nov. 2011).
June 23-25, 2011 - Dr. Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and director of the Language Learning Center, presented a paper entitled "Self-Authorship and L2 Identities on Facebook: Augmenting Student Communicative Behavior" at the 2011 biennial conference of the International Society for Language Studies: "Critical Language Studies: Focusing on Identity" in Aruba. Read More July 10, 2011 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is featured for her work with the Allentown Police Department. Sutherland is helping translate the police department web site into Spanish. Read More  May 23, 2011 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is quoted in a story about Latino growth in Allentown. Read More April 1-3, 2011 - Dr. Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and director of the Language Learning Center, presented a paper entitled "Instructional Challenges of Hybrid Teaching" at the NEALLT 2011 Conference "Transcultural Collaborations: Language Learning in Virtual & Physical Spaces," University of Pennsylvania. Read More April 9, 2011 - Dr. Eduardo Olid, assistant professor of Spanish, presented "Profecía, razón y sueño: Donde viven los monstruos de Cervantes " (Prophecy, Reason and Dream: Where the Wild Things Are on Cervantes)", at the Florida Cervantes Symposium, University of Florida in Gainesville. Read More
April 7, 2011 - Dr. Eduardo Olid, assistant professor of Spanish, presented a paper "Elizabeth I on the Spanish Stage: Antonio Coelllo's El conde de Sex" at the 42nd Annual NEMLA Convention at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  April 1-2, 2011 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, presented a paper and chaired two panels at the Siglo XIX: Symposium on 19th Century Spanish and Spanish-American Literatures, held at Florida International University in Miami.
March 25, 2011 - Dr. Eduardo Olid, assistant professor of Spanish, presented a paper entitled "The Heart and the Stomach of a King: Cervantes's Elizabeth I" at the Fifty-Seventh Annual Meeting of The Renaissance Society of America Conference in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Read More
March 25, 2011 - Mirna Trauger, lecturer in Spanish, attended the 32nd annual Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies conference in Pittsburgh, PA. In addition to chairing a panel, she read a paper titled "El cuerpo y su conceptualización posmoderna en Pajaros de la playa de Severo Sarduy."
March 25, 2011 - Dr. Joan Marx, professor of Spanish, attended the 32nd annual Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies conference in Pittsburgh, PA. In addition to chairing a panel, she read a paper titled "Civil War and Cultural Displacement in Mario Bencastro's Paraiso portatil/Portable Paradise."  March 21, 2011 - Dr. Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French, gave a presentation to the PA-NJ chapter of the College Learning and Reading Association at Northampton Community College. The title of her presentation was "At the Heart of It: Engaging Students (and Ourselves) in the Big Questions that Matter."  March 10, 2011 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, spoke at the opening of "Welcome, Neighbor." the ACLU Collective Memory Project photo exhibit. It opened on Thursday, March 10, 2011 at 6:30 pm at the Allentown Public Library. For more information: Some recent press from the Bethlehem opening: http://www.mcall.com/news/local/allentown   Read More January 2011 - Dr. Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian, had her "Review of Intermediate Ukrainian" published in the CALICO Journal, Vol. 28, No 2. For more information click this link. Read More
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















