






2010 | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2010 






2010














2010











LanguagesLanguage RequirementPlacement ExamMajors and MinorsFacultyCoursesOnline ResourcesOn-Campus ResourcesLC CommonsStudy AbroadNews and ResearchClubsContact UsAlumniStudent ActivitiesKalliope











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and Research2010 












Faculty News and Research - 2010

November 19-21, 2010 - Mirna Trauger, Flor Maria Buitrago, and Helen Bachochin (all lecturers in the Spanish department) attended the American Council of Teaching Foreign Languages conference in Boston. November 12, 2010 - Dr. Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French, was elected to the advisory board of the Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship. November 3-7, 2010 - Dr. Lisa Perfetti (French), Dr. Kathy Wixon (French), Trish Boyles (ABE), Jane Flood (Physics), and Kathy Harring (Psychology) attended the 35th annual Professional and Organizational Development Network in Higher Education conference in St. Louis. Harring and Perfetti presented an interactive session titled "Controversial Conversations: Engaging Students and Faculty." November 5, 2010 - Dr. Eileen McEwan, associate professor of French, attended the American Council for Quebec Studies conference in Burlington, VT, where she chaired a panel and presented a paper entitled "Endurer ou durer? A new feminine 'survivance' in Franco-American and Quebecois literature." November 2010 - Dr. Albert Kipa, Professor Laureate of German and Russian, was named the 2010 post-secondary level Educator of the Year by The Pennsylvania State Modern Language Association (PSMLA). The award plaque, presented at the PSMLA's Fall Conference in Erie, Pa., cites "distinguished teaching and professional contributions to World languages and cultures." October 2010 - Flor Maria Buitrago, lecturer in Spanish, was invited to give a lecture to Computer Aid, Inc., entitled "Colombia: the Land of Coffee, Emerald and Flowers." October 2010 - Dr. Albert Kipa, Professor Laureate of German and Russian, and Saeger Professor of Comparative Literature, is co-translator and co-editor of The Lay of Ihor’s Campaign, the greatest literary monument of Kyivan (Kievan) Rus’. The vast majority of scholars today accept The Lay as a work of the 12th century, although it was first deciphered, edited and published in St. Petersburg in 1800. The new translation is printed in The Ukrainian Quarterly (Vol. LXV, No. 4, Winter 2009, pp. 293-323) to mark the 210th anniversary of the work’s first appearance.  September 30 - October 2, 2010 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, presented her paper "El texto trampolín: Saltos y juegos malabares para principiantes [The text as trampoline: Backflips and tricks for beginners]" at the ASELE conference in Salamanca, Spain. The paper presents a methodology for incorporating advanced texts in elementary-level language classes. October 1-2, 2010 - Eleven Muhlenberg faculty and administrators attended the Connections Across the Curriculum: Integration and Assessment conference held at Moravian College, October 1-2. The conference was supported by a collaborative Teagle Foundation grant awarded to Moravian, Muhlenberg, Drew, Roanoke and Susquehanna, and organized by Curt Keim (Moravian) and Kathy Harring (Muhlenberg).  Participants included Trish Boyles, Keri Colabroy, Cathy Ouellette, Pearl Rosenberg and John Ramsay. Kathy Harring and Laura Edelman presented a session titled "Brain-Based Pedagogy for Integrative Learning." Dr. Lisa Perfetti, Jim Bloom, Jen Jarson and Bruce Wightman facilitated roundtable sessions on service learning, capstone experiences, information literacy, and undergraduate research.  July 26, 2010 - This features the CUNA summer youth program "Cuisine as Culture," modeled on Dr. Erika M. Sutherland's First Year Seminar, and run with the help of Samuel Hayden '10 and Wescoe School student Ana Judith Fragosa. Read More July 8, 2010 - Dr. Kathy Wixon, professor of French, and Sara Imperiale '10, presented a session "Not the Blind Leading the Blind: Peer Editing as Effective Practice in French Composition" at the American Association of Teachers of French convention in Philadelphia.  June 28, 2010 - Dr. Eileen McEwan, associate professor of French, received a grant from the Minister of International Relations in Quebec to do a three-week research project of Quebec literature, culture, and politics. This research will provide the background for her current project involving Franco-American communities in New England.   May 19, 2010 - Dr. Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French, presented a paper at the International Medieval Congress in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Her paper was entitled "From Dream to Joke: Gender and Narrative Transformations in the Fabliau."  May 7, 2010 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is quoted in a Paul Carpenter column on immigration. Read More April 23, 2010 - Dr. Albert Kipa, Professor Laureate and Saeger Professor of Comparative Literature, received Ukraine's "Order of Merit" for "significant personal contributions to the preservation and enhancement of the national historico-cultural heritage." President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko presented the award at the Ukrainian Consulate General offices in New York.  May 1, 2010 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is quoted and was part of a prayer vigil regarding the anti-immigration law in Arizona. Read More  March 26-27, 2010 - Dr. Joan Marx, professor of Spanish, presented the paper, "The Gendering of Space and Identity in Angeles Mastretta's Maridos," at the XXXI Conference of the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies on "Continuing Struggles for Independence and Justice" at Johns Hopkins University. March 26-27, 2010 - Dr. Joan Marx, professor of Spanish, served as the moderator of a panel: "Gender, Literature, and Film" at the XXXI Conference of the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies on "Continuing Struggles for Independence and Justice" at Johns Hopkins University.  March 26, 2010 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, received an award for her work with and on behalf of the Hispanic immigrant communities of the Lehigh Valley as part of the Estrellas de Platino (platinum stars) awards ceremony organized by the Latinos Lounge Media Group.  March 25, 2010 - Flor Maria Buitrago, lecturer in Spanish, presented "Incorporating Real-Life Business Applications in a Spanish Business Course" at the International Business Education and Research Conference at the University of Pennsylvania.  March 8, 2010 - Dr. Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is quoted in an article on the Census. Read More


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















