






Ross Handler | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesAlumniFeatured Spanish AlumniRoss Handler 






Ross Handler














Ross Handler











Ross HandlerMatt SchroederKrumholz











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesAlumniFeatured Spanish AlumniRoss Handler 












Ross Handler '14 B.A. Spanish and International Relations
Muhlenberg College 

Ross graduated in spring of 2014 with a B.A. in Spanish and International Relations. During his time at Muhlenberg Ross served as the Executive Secretary of the Student Government Association, leading the Student Services Committee with the help of a great executive board and team of committee members.  In addition to being a member of the Student Government Association, Ross was also involved with several other committees with which the Student Government Association interacts including: The College Greening Committee, The Senior Connections Campaign for the Class of 2014, and the Muhlenberg Fund.
Currently Ross is attending American University where is working a Joint Masters and JD program. In his junior year, Ross was inducted into Pi Sigma Alpha: the National Political Science Honors Society, Phi Sigma Iota: the National Foreign Language Honors Society, and Omicron Delta Kappa: the National Leadership Honors Society. Ross was also proud to serve as President of the Cardinal Key Society, the College’s Student-Alumni Association, of which he has been a member since his freshman year. Ross was also a peer tutor for Spanish and International Studies courses and is also a member of the Social Judicial Panel and a team member on the Men’s Varsity Tennis team.
He also loves spending quality time with his two dogs, Maggie and Franklin. In his spare time, Ross enjoys spending time at his beach house, traveling with his family, and keeping up with current events. Past summer internships include positions at the Embassy of Spain in Washington, D.C., and the United Nations, where he served as advisor to the countries of Argentina and the Dominican Republic. 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















