






Jennifer Epting '03 | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesAlumniFeatured French AlumniJennifer Epting '03 






Jennifer Epting '03














Jennifer Epting '03











Lauren Jenson '10Jennifer Epting '03Erin Koontz '03











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesAlumniFeatured French AlumniJennifer Epting '03 













A Message from Jennifer Epting '03




Jennifer Epting Class of '03 French & English



1. Are you currently employed in the work force or continuing your education? If so, where?
I currently work as the Coordinator of Alumni Relations at the French-American School of New York. I also do work for the Communications and Development Offices at the School. The School is based in Westchester, NY (more specifically, my office is in Scarsdale) and is a bilingual and bicultural school.
2. Do you enjoy what you're doing?
My job is the perfect solution for someone who straddled two majors at school- I continue to wear a variety of hats everyday at work, which keeps me from getting bored! I use French everyday with parents, students, faculty, and administration at the school and I do quite a bit of translation from French to English. I'm also doing a lot of writing, so it's a nice blend to draw from my English major as well.
3. What are your plans for the future?
I'm headed back to graduate school (probably next year). It took a few valuable years of thinking and gaining experience to figure out what I'd like to pursue in grad school, and I've decided to study linguistics or a variation of that. I think that bilingualism and second language acquisition is going to be an important field in this country and I think it's really interesting to talk about that not only on a linguistic level, but also a cultural and social level.
4. Have you ever been able to use your knowledge of French language/culture?
Absolutely- the fact that I speak French allows me to become closer with the parent population at my school. And it's not only that I'm bringing that to the table- my job continues to inform me about French culture and language issues that I don't know about.
5. Do you find that the understanding of cultural differences that you've developed as a French major/minor plays a role in your life?
After living abroad, I returned home and wanted to hug every immigrant on the street! I think more than my French major, my time spent living abroad proved that being a "stranger" in another place can be difficult at times. Having lived that myself, I certainly think that I'm more understanding when it comes to people of other cultures or traditions. It's one of the reasons that I encourage so many students to spend time in another place, outside their "comfort zone."
6. Is there anything you'd like to share about your personal life?
When I studied in Aix-en-Provence, I didn't make a lot of European friends. When I returned to France after I graduated, it became a goal of mine to push myself to make friends who were not only American. I achieved that and now when I go to France, I feel much less like a tourist and a lot more like it's my home away from home.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















