






Russian Club Constitution | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesClubsRussian ClubRussian Club Constitution 






Russian Club Constitution














Russian Club Constitution











Photos and EventsRussian Club Constitution











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesClubsRussian ClubRussian Club Constitution 












 [an error occurred while processing this directive]
Russian Club Constitution

ARTICLE I - NAME
 This organization shall be called the Russian Club (Rouskayeh Obschestva) of Muhlenberg College. ARTICLE I I - PURPOSE The function of the Russian Club shall be to encourage and support all Russian-related studies and interests and to help acquaint students with the Russian language, culture, history, and way of life. It is the view of the Russian Club that such studies will create interest in and understanding of the peoples and policies of Russia. ARTICLE III - MEMBERSHIP Any student of Muhlenberg College who is involved in, or interested in, the Russian Studies program may become a member of the Russian Club. Members of the Russian Club are required to observe the objective of the club, to attend meetings as often as possible, and to participate in the programs in accordance with their abilities to do so. These shall be known as active members with full voting rights. Club activities, however, are open to all members of the Muhlenberg College community. Matters concerning the Russian Club will be decided by a majority of the members present. ARTICLE IV - OFFICERS There shall be a president, a vice-president, a secretary, and a treasurer.  ARTICLE V - DUTIES OF OFFICERS Section 1. The duties of the President shall be... a. to preside at all meetings b. to represent the club on all occasions c. to be an ex-officio member of all committees d. to designate the time and place of meetings e. to provide current constitution and updated list of officers to the Student Council and Dean of Students Office Section 2. The duties of the Vice-president shall be... a. to have the powers of the President in his/her absence b. to coordinate committees on the request of the President c. to be an ex-officio member of all committees Section 3. The duties of the Treasurer shall be... a. to keep records of all money collected and expended b. to report financial standing at regular meetings and at the request of Student Council c. to pay all expenses on the treasury which have been approved and signed by the President and the Treasurer d. to preside at meetings at which the President and Vice-president are absent e. to act as primary liaison to the Student Council Finance Committee, coordinate preparation and submission of semesterly or annual budget, and attend allocation interviews Section 4. The duties of the Secretary shall be... a. to keep an accurate written record of all meetings b. to conduct all official correspondence c. to keep a record of attendance d. to preside at meetings at which the above officers are absent ARTICLE VI - BY-LAWS A. Terms of Office Officers of the Russian Club shall be elected in April or May for a term of one year, effective upon election. B. Qualifications for Office In order to qualify for office, a candidate must be a member of the club. A vacancy in any office shall be filled by a special election called by the officers. C. Elections Nominations for candidate shall be from the floor, from active members and advisor(s). Elections shall be called for by the Executive Council c.f. ARTICLE VII. Elections shall occur no less than one week after public notice of intended voting through the media available at Muhlenberg College. In addition, members will be notified of intended voting through campus mail. The President of the Russian Club will vote only in the case of a tie and at no other time. In the event that any candidate fails to attain a majority, the tow nominees receiving the highest number of votes shall be voted upon. Elections shall be held in the order in which the offices are listed in ARTICLE V, with all voting to be completed at one meeting. ARTICLE VII - THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL The Executive Council shall be the administrative power of the club and shall consist of the officers and the advisor(s) of the club. ARTICLE VIII - AMENDMENTS Amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Club shall be made in a specially called meeting of the Russian Club. This meeting must be called for in accordance with ARTICLE IX but, unlike a regular meeting, it may be requested by a majority of the members of the Russian Club. In such a case, the Executive Council must schedule the special meeting. Amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Club require a two-thirds majority of the members of Russian Club to become effective. In such cases they will become effective immediately upon passing, following the approval of Student Council. ARTICLE IX - MEETINGS Regular meetings of the Russian Club will be called by the Executive Council. They will be held three times a semester. Public notice will be made via the media available at Muhlenberg College, and the members will be notified by campus mail at least one week prior to the intended meeting.  ARTICLE X - FINANCES Each year the Executive Council shall submit a budget to the members of the club. A majority vote of active members present shall be required for the passage of the budget, which is then subject to the approval of Student Council.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















