






Honors in English Literatures | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsEnglish Literatures & WritingEnglish LiteraturesHonors in English Literatures 






Honors in English Literatures













Honors in English Literatures











English Literatures MajorEnglish Literatures MinorCreative & Professional Writing MinorFaculty and StaffHonors in English LiteraturesSigma Tau DeltaMuhlenberg Academic ReviewBrown Lectures











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsEnglish Literatures & WritingEnglish LiteraturesHonors in English Literatures 











The English Literatures & Writing Honors program is designed for students of demonstrated ability and commitment. Students in the English Literatures & Writing Honors Program spend the senior year working closely with a faculty mentor to research and write an Honors Thesis, a scholarly research essay or creative project of about 50-70 pages. Graduates with Honors degrees in English Literatures & Writing are well prepared for a number of post-graduate careers, including graduate study in literature, publishing, journalism, advertising, the law, social justice/advocacy work, and anywhere else where analytic and creative ability and strong writing and communication skills are valued.
Honors Program Requirements:
Students wishing to enter the honors program must maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 and a major GPA of at least 3.75, and will take a minimum of eleven or fourteen (depending on your major) courses in the English department, including the two honors independent studies devoted to thesis work. Below is a rough timeline for honors work. Please see the Honors in Creative Writing web page for requirements for the creative writing honors project.
Spring Junior Year: Early in the spring of the junior year, the Honors Committee will contact eligible junior English Literatures and English & Creative Writing majors and encourage them to consult with individual professors.
Interested students should also attend the presentations of the current honors students, which ordinarily take place in April.
Students should then consult with faculty members to find one who will serve as a mentor for his/her/their project. As faculty are not required to mentor students, and are not remunerated for the work, students should leave plenty of time to find a mentor who is interested in working with them on their project.
By May 5 of the junior year, the student must submit a preliminary proposal to the Director of the Honors Program. This proposal should be roughly 3-5 double-spaced pages (750-1250 words), must include a working bibliography of primary and secondary resources, and must be accompanied by a letter of endorsement from a faculty mentor. Guidelines for what this proposal should include may be found below. Please contact Cathie Ingram, Administrative Assistant, for examples of successful proposals.
If any part of the proposal is missing, a member of the Honors Committee will contact the student before exam week, and the student will be asked to remedy the omission before commencement. During this time, the student should meet with his/her advisor to make a plan for ongoing work and to address any concerns expressed by the Honors Committee.
A student wishing to pursue honors must also arrange and register for an honors independent study with his/her/their mentor for the fall of senior year.
Summer following Junior Year: An honors student will generally work with his/her mentor in the spring of junior year, to decide on a course of summer study designed to facilitate his/her work in the fall.
Fall Senior Year: During this time the honors student should work with his/her mentor to develop a more detailed prospectus and bibliography. This prospectus must be submitted to the Honors Committee by November 15. Guidelines for what the prospectus should include may be found below.
After the November prospectus is submitted, the Honors Committee, in consultation with the Faculty Mentor, will determine whether the student may proceed with the Honors Program. Any student who is not cleared to pursue honors in the spring will finish in the fall, receiving credit for an application-based, graded Honors Independent Study. Similarly, any student whose work has taken other directions may opt to exit the program at this point. Students planning to complete the honors program should arrange a second honors Independent study with their mentor for the spring of senior year.
Spring Senior Year: Honors students present their work at a public forum and then submit their work to their advisors and two additional faculty readers (one of whom may be from outside the English department) by the end of spring classes and defend it in a year-end conversation with these three faculty members, who will determine the degree of honors to be awarded (none, honors, high, or highest).

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















