






Degree Audit | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesRegistrarDegree AuditDegree Audit 





















Degree Audit











How to Access and Use the Degree AuditFeatures of the Degree AuditThe "What If" Feature of the Degree Audit











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesRegistrarDegree AuditDegree Audit 











Degree Audit


The Degree Audit is a computer program that reviews past and current student coursework and matches the courses with the requirements of his/her degree program or anticipated program, including units needed to graduate and GPA information.  It will show how the student’s courses have been applied toward the degree and which courses the student still needs to complete.  The audit is divided into sections such as Major, Minor, and General Academic Requirements and will audit major one, major two, minor one, minor two, and GARs.  If the student has not yet declared a major or minor, only the GARs will be audited.
Audits are available for anyone who has enrolled for credit as a Muhlenberg student beginning Fall 2012 or later and has at least one graded semester record in Capstone.  Students in their first semester will have an audit that shows how the courses currently "in progress" will apply toward their degree.
In addition to monitoring what the student has taken, the audit may also answer “What-if” questions.  "What-if" I declare an additional major or change my major.  The “What-if” degree audit will apply completed course work to new majors/minors and show how the requirements for graduation will change based on this new major/minor.  It is helpful for students who are exploring majors/minors and for those considering a second major.  "What-if" can also be used to show how specific courses may be used toward a degree.
Toward the end of each audit is a "Not Used" section.  This list shows courses that were not used to fulfill a specific major/minor/gar requirement.  These are used to fulfill units required toward graduation.  If there is a course in the "Not Used" section that should be applied toward a specific requirement, the Registrar's Office should be notified, usually through a department variance request.
An audit is an up-to-the-minute outline of courses needed to meet degree, major, and minor requirements.  This information should be used to discuss plans with the student’s academic adviser.  If the audit identifies unfulfilled requirements, there are often several alternatives for satisfying these requirements.  The student and adviser should discuss which courses to schedule based on the student’s abilities, interests, and plans.  Advising may also be helpful in determining the best combination of courses to schedule each semester in order to meet requirements.
In addition to indicating how courses were used toward the student's degree, it will also list cumulative and major or minor GPAs.
The degree audit is not the student’s official College academic record.  The transcript is the official record of completed work.  The degree audit is a tool to provide students with academic information related to degree progress.  It displays courses required and completed in the degree program.  The transcript is the official academic record and provides a chronological list of courses completed and other academic information.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















