






Student Collaboration | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesOffice of CommunicationsStudent Collaboration 






Student Collaboration














Student Collaboration











Available ProjectsInternships











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesOffice of CommunicationsStudent Collaboration 











Freelance Opportunities
Freelance students produce content for the College and are compensated for their time, effort and skill. Students are exposed to project requirements, deadlines and technical specifications they will encounter in the workplace.
A list of available projects is maintained on the public relations website. Students may also submit original pitches for work. Pitches will be assessed on timing, content, budget, publication location and other factors before being accepted for production.
Each student who submits work to be published receives a creator's byline/credit/etc. for use in a portfolio or production reel. All contracted students receive payment according to the project agreement, but content must meet established editorial standards for inclusion on the Muhlenberg website.
The following guide is a generalized payment schedule for project contracts and is subject to change on project specifications:



Assignment
Estimated Payment
Estimated Delivery Timeline


Social Media Post
$10-15
1 hour


Feature Article(~250-350 words)
$25-50
2-5 days


Event Photography
$20/hour
2 days


Video Profile(~1:15-2:00 length)
$75
10+ days



 Please note: current interns are generally ineligible for freelance contracts due to a conflict of interest.

 






Freelance FAQ
Who is eligible for a freelance opportunity?
Muhlenberg students must have satisfactory academic standing and be eligible to work in Pennsylvania. Faculty recommendation and/or proven aptitude is required before a project will be issued.
Do I need my own camera or other equipment?
Public relations has several cameras, lenses and associated equipment available for loan. Equipment is expected to be returned promptly to the public relations office during regular business hours, unless otherwise agreed upon.
If a student wishes to use their own equipment, they must first meet with Bill Keller to determine quality and compatibility with project requirements. 
Does it matter what software I use?
Some projects will be worked on by more than one individual. If specific software is required, the project application will reflect that requirement. 
If I complete a project, will it be published?
Project publication and timing is subject to editorial standards and the discretion of the public relations department. Students who complete an assigned project will receive payment regardless of publication status.
How do I receive payment?
Payments are issued through the office of public relations. Students must complete required paperwork (including proof of employment eligibility, if required) before payments can be issued. Payments are subject to scheduled check distributions for public relations and other college offices.
How are freelance students chosen?
Students are encouraged to respond to project bids in a timely manner. Students will be chosen based upon application responses, faculty recommendation, demonstrated capability of project requirements and satisfactory project history (if applicable) with the office of public relations. 
Are there limits on the number of projects I can apply for?
We expect the application process to be competitive; students are encouraged to apply for projects they feel are within their capability based on aptitude, interest and existing obligations.
What makes a bid successful?
Successful bids will demonstrate an understanding of project need, strong communication skills, creativity (within project scope), responsiveness to inquiries and faculty/staff endorsement. 
What if I have additional questions?
Please contact Bill Keller in the office of public relations.


















Contact Us

Office of Communications









Email

communications@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3230







Address

Muhlenberg College
484-664-3477 (fax)
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















