






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















Message to international students from China from the Office of International Student Support
Wednesday, February 5, 2020

Hi Everyone:
I wanted to reach out to all of our F-1 students from China as we are nearing the Spring Break period (Residence Halls Close February 28 at 6PM and reopen Sunday March 7). As you may be aware, because of the coronavirus situation, the US government is presently (as of Sunday, February 2nd) suspending entry of (most) non-US nationals who were in any and all regions in mainland China (excluding Hong Kong, Macau) for 14 days before they may enter the USA. This includes F-1 international students from China, or any F-1 students who were in China. 
Because of this, if you go home in mainland China during Spring Break, you will not be able to return to the USA until you have spent 14 days in a stopover country after leaving China (but before entering the USA). Which means you will miss a significant amount of the semester and may potentially have to take a leave of absence if you miss too much class time. 14 days is the period determined in which the coronavirus symptoms will either be present or not if one has been exposed to it. 
To avoid any potential complications in your studies, it is highly recommended that all F-1 students from China consider staying inside the USA for the Spring Break period. You must register to stay on campus here (deadline is February 14): https://www.muhlenberg.edu/student-life/housing/breakhousing/
If you stay on campus for any portion of the break, we'll plan a Spring Break schedule for the week to include shopping and movie trips (or anything else you would like to do, please email any recommendations!). Travelling domestically within the USA should be fine (you will need your passport to board any flights, and it is recommended to have a copy of your I-20 in case there are any security checks). Travelling internationally (besides China) during Spring Break should be fine as well, but you will need to be ready to prove you did not travel to China during your Spring Break when you re-enter the USA (your passport travel stamps and registry should prove this).  If anyone travelling internationally would like a signed letter from OISS indicating their travel plans and dates to have as additional documentation of travel (as well as Muhlenberg student status), please let me know. As always, you must carry both your passport (and current visa) and your I-20 document for US re-entry. Your I-20 should be signed by a DSO on page 2 (Travel Endorsement) if it is older than 6 months, and definitely must be signed if it is older than 12 months.
If anyone MUST travel to China either during Spring Break, or otherwise during this semester while there is a 14-day travel suspension in place, please schedule a time to come meet with me as soon as possible. 
Looking Ahead We will monitor the situation as we approach the summer break and send updates accordingly. We hope by then that travel will return to normal. Any family members looking to come for graduation in May should also stay updated on the situation. For your information, more resources and links on the coronavirus specific to international education, including international students in the US, may be found here: https://www.nafsa.org/regulatory-information/coronavirus-critical-resources
Again, Muhlenberg is here to support you as you continue your studies. If you have any questions or concerns or would like to talk with anyone for additional support, please don't hesitate to reach out to the Health or Counseling Center, myself in OISS, the Dean of Students Office or Pastor Kristen Glass Perez in the Chapel.  
Best, Thomas Janis Director, Office of International Student Support

 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















