






Break Housing | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeBreak Housing 






Break Housing














Break Housing











AC PolicyBreak HousingEarly Arrival RequestsGender Inclusive HousingHousing ApplicationsHousing ServicesMeet our Professional StaffMILE House PropertiesMission StatementMove In InformationMy Bus HomeOff Campus ResourcesRA Application ProcessRefrigerator & Microwave PolicyResidential EducationRoom and Furniture DimensionsSpecial HousingStudent Storage











Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeBreak Housing 












Break Housing Information
The College Housing Lease does not cover break or vacation periods and College Housing is closed during the following breaks: Thanksgiving Break, Winter Break, Spring Break, Easter Break
 If you are faculty or staff and looking to submit a group request for a break stay please do not use the form on this page. Instead please email housing @muhlenberg.edu in order to submit your request 

 







Break Policy Information:
Students in the categories below may request to stay late, return early, or stay for the entire duration of break.
All requests that are received on time will be reviewed, but we cannot guarantee that we will approve requests. If a request is filed on time and approved, there is no charge for the student's stay.
Late Requests are subject to a $50 fee. If you are experiencing financial hardships that will prevent you from paying this late fee, please contact the Dean of Student's office to request a payment plan or alternate arrangements.
Requests can be submitted on the Adirondack Housing Portal.
Please note that meal plans do not operate over break periods.
Students who can request break approval

International Students
Students who live more than 300 miles from campus
Students with a class and academic related situation (i.e. student teaching, internship, etc.) with endorsement from a Faculty member
Student Groups such as athletic teams and clubs who have been granted permission through a coach or advisor
Students assisting or working for a campus department during break (to be requested by department)
Financial constraints- to be reviewed on an individual basis
Extenuating family and/or home request- to be reviewed on an individual basis

 
2021-2022 Break Schedule: 



Break Period
Halls Close
Halls ReOpen
Requests Due
Approvals/Denials


Thanksgiving Break
Tues., Nov. 23 6pm
Sun., Nov. 28 10am
Tues., Nov. 9 6pm
Tues., Nov. 16 6pm


Winter Break
Sat., Dec. 18 10am
Sun., Jan. 16 10am
Fri., Dec. 3 6pm
Fri., Dec. 10 6pm


Spring Break
Fri., Mar. 11 6pm
Sun., Mar. 20 10am
Fri., Feb. 25 6pm
Fri., Mar. 4 6pm


Easter Break
Thurs., Apr. 14 6pm 
Mon., Apr. 18 10am
Thurs., Mar. 31 6pm
Thurs., Apr. 7 6pm



 * You do NOT need to apply to stay over Fall Break.  Housing does not close, meal plans are still active. 

 






End of the Academic Year Policy Information:
Graduating Seniors (Those officially approved to walk at the Sunday, May 22, 2022 Commencement Ceremony) are approved to stay in college housing until May 22nd at 6pm
For all other students College Housing closes at 10am Saturday, May 14, 2022. Students are required to move out of their rooms 24 hours after their last final or Saturday, May 14, 2022 (whichever is earlier).
Students in the categories below may request to return early.
All requests that are received on time (deadline tba) will be reviewed, but we cannot guarantee that we will approve requests.
Requests can be submitted on the Adirondack Housing Portal. Read the Early Arrival Instructions for more details.
Late Requests are subject to a $50 fee. If you are experiencing financial hardships that will prevent you from paying this late fee, please contact the Dean of Student's office to request a payment plan or alternate arrangements.
Students who can request approval

International Students
Students who live more than 500 miles from campus
Students with a class and academic related situation (i.e. student teaching, internship, etc.) with endorsement from a Faculty member
Student Groups such as athletic teams and clubs who have been granted permission through a coach or advisor
Students assisting with Senior Week events and Commencement who have been granted permission through a campus department
Financial constraints- to be reviewed on an individual basis
Extenuating family and/or home request- to be reviewed on an individual basis

 End of Academic Year Requests are due tba

 






Early Arrival for Beginning of the Academic Year (August):
Move In Dates/Times

Class of 2025 Students Move in Thursday, August 26, 2021 times 8am-1pm
Class of 2024 Students and Transfer Students Move in Friday, August 27, 2021 times 8am-1pm
Class of 2022 and Class of 2023 Students Move in August 28-29, 2021 times TBA

 
Beginning of the Academic Year Policy Information: 
No requests are guaranteed, but all requests will be reviewed. Requests can be submitted on the Adirondack Housing Portal. Read the Early Arrival Instructions for more details.
Students who can request early arrival at the beginning of the academic year

International Students
Students who live more than 500 miles from campus
Students with a class and academic related situation (i.e. student teaching, internship, etc.) with endorsement from a Faculty member
Student Groups such as athletic teams and clubs who have been granted permission through a coach or advisor
Students assisting or working for a campus department during orientation and opening (to be requested by department)
Financial constraints- to be reviewed on an individual basis
Extenuating family and/or home request- to be reviewed on an individual basis

 

 






 
 

"My Bus Home", an independent provider of comfortable, wi-fi enabled motor coach transportation, offers service between Muhlenberg and selected locations in Westchester County, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Long Island, and Maryland for all academic breaks. For more information and to make a reservation, please visit www.MyBusHome.com

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















