






Neighborly Hints | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeHousing ServicesNeighborly Hints 






Neighborly Hints














Neighborly Hints











AC PolicyBed Bug InformationBicycle Racks @ BergEarly Arrival RequestsFurnishingsHousing ApplicationsKitchensLaundryLiving OptionsMartin Luther "Underground"Refrigerator and Microwave InformationRoom and Furniture DimensionsRoommate InformationStudy LoungesTechnology











Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeHousing ServicesNeighborly Hints 












NEIGHBORLY HELPFUL HINTS
Living off-campus in a MILE property or landlord own property is a privilege at Muhlenberg College and should be treated with a great deal of responsibility. It is also a great opportunity to live independently, learn skills such as cooking or hone skills you already have, work with a budget to take care of rent and utilities, and interact with your land lord and neighbors.
Included is information that will help you navigate some of those responsibilities while living in the neighborhood. If you have questions about any of this information, please contact Housing & Residence Life at (484)-664-3180 or housing@muhlenberg.edu.
TRASH

Trash collection nights are Mondays and Thursdays.
Trash must be set out between 5 pm and 10 pm.
Trash and recycling containers must be retrieved from the curb within 12 hours after collection.
Trash and recycling containers may not be stored in front of a property or on the front porch.

RECYCLING
As of June 2016, the City of Allentown went to a co-mingled system. You can use either the green bin or blue bin for your recyclable items.

Allentown recycling is co-mingled.
Use the green or blue bin for approved items.
Recycling collection night is Thursday.
Recycling must be set out between 5 pm and 10 pm.
Bins must be returned to the back or side of the property 12 hours after the pick up.

 


RecycleDO NOT RECYCLE



Glass
Plastic bags of any kind


Plastic (marked #1-7)
Hazardous waste


Aluminum cans and foil
TVs


Cartons and drink boxes (remove straws and caps)
Electronics


Paper
Computers


Book
Batteries


Cardboard
Appliances


Paperboard (ex: cereal boxes)
Metal pots and pans


Mail/magazines
Liquid paint


Newspapers/inserts
Tires and auto parts with fluids



Additional information about trash and recycling available here or call 610-437-8729 for disposal information.
PARKING

Please be considerate of neighbors.
Do not take two spaces with one car.
Never block a neighbor's driveway.
Register your car with Campus Safety.
If you are having a party, please encourage your guests to park in areas where there is plenty of parking availability (ex: campus provided lots, nearby streets that regularly have space, etc.)

STREET CLEANING

Notice signs posted on all streets. Do not park on the side of the street during the designated times to be cleaned or you will get a $20.00 parking ticket (2nd offense  in 30 day period, $30.00).

PROPERTY MAINTENANCE

Be aware of what are your maintenance responsibilities as dictated by your lease.
Keep your property clean of debris. Sweep leaves, dirt regularly. Do not let papers or trash collect on your property.
Shovel walks in a timely fashion. City ordinance requires that sidewalks be cleared ten hours after the end of a snowfall.

NOISE

There is a 24-hour noise ordinance in the City of Allentown. It is too loud if noise can be heard by neighbors. 
Be considerate, especially at night.
Remind guests when leaving your home to keep their voices down.
Keep the line of communication open and let your neighbors know of planned parties.

ONLINE RESOURCES

City of Allentown: Find information about city policies and ordinances and information about area events, parks, etc.
Allentown Chamber of Commerce: Find Information about downtown businesses

 
 
Continue with materials to prepare for Off Campus Application Process
Continue to Adirondack Housing Portal for MILE Application Process
 
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















