






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















Message to Students from the Dean of Students Office
Monday, March 9, 2020

Dear students, I am writing to provide a few updates and reminders tonight related to ongoing concerns about COVID-19.  I will try to be brief:

Muhlenberg College DOES NOT have any current known cases of COVID-19.  We will notify the community if that becomes a concern.  
Some of you have asked me if Hoffman House is being used to "quarantine" sick students right now.  The answer to that is NO.  If the College is made aware that a community member may have the virus, we will assist that individual in getting to a hospital for testing. Currently, Hoffman house is being cleaned and prepared in case a residential student needs to self-monitor in isolation because of a potential exposure to COVID-19.   That is different than having a suspected positive case of COVID-19.  The Hoffman House and other locations that have single bedrooms with their own bathrooms are used for these purposes in many of our medical emergency plans at the College so that we can quickly and easily move a student out of a community living situation into an isolated space that does not put others at risk.  If you have additional questions about this, please email me! When things are stressful and people are concerned about their health and safety, it is easy for rumors and false information to start to run rampant.  Please try to be part of the solution to this by emailing me, the Health Center or checking with your residential life staff if you are unsure of something.  
Residence Hall visitor policies - Please click here to review the residence hall policy which prohibits non-Muhlenberg students from being in the residence halls.  Visitors are still allowed in other areas of campus as long as they do not have a known exposure to the virus.
Travel Policy - If you are traveling overnight for a college-related matter, please complete a travel registration form here. This will allow us to be in touch with you should there be an emergency while you are away.
Below are the posters you have seen across campus today to provide some additional reminders.  Please read them and/or print them out for your reference.

Coronavirus Symptoms
Coronavirus Bias



We are continuing to monitor the situation around the clock.  We will continue to make decisions in line with local and state government agencies and the CDC guidelines and recommendations for colleges and for our region.  We will keep you up to date on information and decisions as they evolve. In the meantime, keep washing your hands, avoid close contact with sick individuals, wipe down your computers, phones, desks, and other surfaces, and keep being caring and compassionate toward one another.  Finally, CALL the health center if you are feeling ill at any time and they will provide you with guidance.  If it is after business hours, contact your RA or campus safety and they will have a nurse on call get in touch with you.

Thank you and be well,
Dean Gulati

 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















