






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















Message to International Students from the Office of International Student Support
Tuesday, March 10, 2020

Hi All:
I hope you all enjoyed your Spring Break! OISS wants to to highlight the Dean of Students' message pertaining to the Coronavirus Update and Reminders that was sent last night. Please read the below email from Dean Gulati very carefully. Details are updated often, so please check your email regularly and/or visit the college web-page on covid-19 for the latest updates pertaining to the College: https://www.muhlenberg.edu/offices/healthcenter/coronavirus/
Please also read the following additional information/details:
Incidents of Bias:One of the attached flyers to this email sent by the Dean of Students (and also posted around campus) entitled "Coronavirus Bias" outlines to the whole Muhlenberg community that Mules are expected to avoid making assumptions about who may or may not have covid-19 virus based on: Identity; Appearance; Country of Origin; Stereotypes.
If you feel you have been, in any way, targeted inappropriately or made to feel unwelcome (because of coronavirus bias or otherwise), please report this to any college faculty or staff member to whom you feel comfortable sharing this. As , your faculty and staff can ensure the College support team is aware of the incident and ensure the safety and well-being of all is maintained. Additionally, you can also complete an online form to detail the incident/s directly to the College support team (known as CARE):   
If you would like to share details of any incident/s, but wish to keep all details completely confidential, the only college staff members who are not responsible for reporting directly to College support officials are:  and any  leaders. They can listen to you and offer personal guidance and care, but will not share your details with anyone else.
For more information on what bias is and Muhlenberg's policy and practice, you may view Muhlenberg's Bias Education and Resource Team web-page here:   
Wearing of masks:In addition, you may be wondering about wearing masks on campus, in your dorms, and in your classrooms to protect yourself, please read this College statement pertaining to the wearing of masks: The CDC does not currently recommend the use of face masks among the general public. Wearing a mask is a personal choice. Additionally, persons with any respiratory illnesses may wear a mask to reduce the spread of droplets when they cough, sneeze or speak. As a normal protocol, wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms, especially inside the health center to reduce the spread of any infection. Other than in these situations, it is solely personal preference and individuals should do what feels most comfortable to them.  At this time, the College is not providing community members with masks, but if someone has them and wants to wear them, they may do so.
Coronavirus Symptoms:The second flyer attached to this email (and also posted around campus) details the basic symptoms and transmission of covid-19. More details regarding Coronavirus and Muhlenberg's response are posted on a new webpage here:
Panel Discussion Tonight:Finally, tonight there is a panel discussion on covid-19 at 6pm in Trexler Library, which will look at COVID-19 from various disciplinary lenses. Unable to make it in person? You can also watch via livestream here.
As said earlier, more information will be shared on an ongoing basis. But, please let me know if you have any questions or concerns at anytime. Wishing you all a strong and successful start to the second half of your Spring semester!

 
Tom Janis
Director, OISS


 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















