






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















Message to International Students from the Office of International Student Support
Tuesday, March 10, 2020

Dear Muhlenberg International Students:
We are all here to support each other as our campus makes a crucial and important decision to help stem the spread of covid-19 by closing campus for in-person classes and switch to an entirely all online system for courses until April 13th. Please note, to date, there has not been a single case of covid-19 on our campus.  I know you have a lot of questions, and, we are all getting information as it is available. For now, please read all email communications carefully. Please also review the Muhlenberg Coronavirus webpage.
You MUST Complete HRL FormBe sure that you complete the HRL form by 3pm, Thursday, March 12th (the email is copied below). This is so you can inform HRL if you will stay on campus or leave.
You MUST Complete OISS Contact Form  In addition to the information sent by HRL (see below), all International Students must also complete this contact form by 5:00PM Thursday.  This is so we can be in contact and so we have you most up to date contact information for you.
OISS Meeting: Friday, time TBD, location TBDOn Friday (time and location To Be Decided) OISS will hold a MANDATORY meeting with all F-1 international students who are currently on campus. If you are not a F-1 student, you are also strongly encouraged to attend. The meeting will provide more current updates and will serve as a Q/A.
Here are some answers to some questions so far:(Please keep in mind, some of this could change!)
Are international students allowed to stay on campus?Yes - if you choose to stay on campus (when you fill out the  HRL form), you will be permitted to stay on campus and complete your coursework online until classes resume or for the remainder of the semester. College staff and some faculty will be present on campus. All offices, including OISS, will be open regular hours.
Will the meal plans be in place for those that stay?Yes, your meal plans will remain active. But, the dining hall may have reduced hours or offerings. More details will follow after they are confirmed. 
If you choose to leave campus Saturday or in the future, is there transportation provided?Yes, transportation will be provided from campus to your bus station or airport. Please see attached flyer for Saturday transportation details. Please be in touch to coordinate later transportation. 
How will my F-1 status be impacted by the change to online courses?In normal circumstances, F-1 students may not take more than one online course per semester. However, the SEVP (Student Exchange Visitor Program) has issued guidance that international students can now take all online courses in the USA if their school is mitigating the risk of covid-19 by switching to all online classes. 
More FAQ can be found on the Muhlenberg Coronavirus page
Decision: To Stay or To Go?I know many of you are weighing your options about staying on campus either short term or long term to complete online courses, going to another part of the USA where you have friends/family to complete online coursework, or going back home all together to do your courses online. Should classes resume on April 13th, the option may exist for some students to continue the semester online, even if in-person classes resume in April. There is not a definitive guidance on this yet, but, when it is available, OISS will let you know so you can make an informed decision in consultation with your family.
Don't hesitate to reach out at any time if you have questions! More details to come. 
Have a good night,
-Tom Janis Director, OISS

 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















