






Connect | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesInformation TechnologyConnect 






Connect














Connect











About ITGet HelpCampus TechnologyFaculty and Staff ComputingStudent ComputingWeb ResourcesG SuiteInstructional Technology and Digital Learning











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesInformation TechnologyConnect 













Connecting Your Computer
Getting Connected


Turn the computer OFF.
Locate the network jack. Generally it is found on the same wall unit which houses the cable connection as well as the phone connector. The network jack resembles a telephone jack, except it is wider.
Connect one end of the blue network cable (provided by the College) to the wall socket.
Plug the remaining end of the blue network cable into the appropriate outlet on your computer.
Turn the computer ON.

Preparing Your Computer for Campus Network Access
To connect your computer to ResNet, a network setting called DHCP must be enabled so your computer will obtain its IP address (network address). Here are the instructions on how to enable DHCP. (Further details for authenticating to the campus network will be provided in your “move-in” packet when you arrive on campus.)
NOTE: Please perform the following instructions before departing for campus. Changing this setting could cause a lost connection with your current Internet Service Provider.


Go to Start --> Settings --> Control Panel
Double-click on “Network Connections” for Windows XP or “Network and Dial-up Connections” or Windows 2000.
Right Click on your Local Area Network Connection and choose “Properties”.
In the box click on “Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) and click “Properties”.
Make sure the “Obtain an IP address automatically” and “Obtain DNS server address automatically” radio buttons are checked.
Click “OK” and “Close”. There is no need to restart your computer.

Registering Your Computer
Freshman :


Turn on your PC
You will get to your desktop
Open Internet Browser
You will see the following image (if you get Page Cannot Be Displayed, click Refresh or F5)
Login with your college provided NETWORK ID AND NETWORK PASSWORD (Information is included in the packet  that will be sent to your home in July) User Name Password Select HW Description - choose laptop or desktop
Click Apply
On the screen that pops up, check the "Don’t" box, then click NO
You will see an image, please read the information under Notice. (local area connection unplugged message may pop on bottom right, this is ok)
As it says, close all windows & restart your PC    

You now should have full Internet Access. If after following these directions, you experience problems – contact the Student Help Desk at x3375 .
Configuring Your Computer to Print to the Residence Hall Lab Printer
Before beginning this process, please have your NETWORK INFORMATION sheet located in the  white #10 envelope of your move-in packet handy for reference.
The following instructions will configure your computer to print to the nearest residence hall lab printer. The instructions are for both Windows 2000 and Windows XP.


Go to Start --> Control Panel --> Administrative Tools --> Computer Management
Double-click on “Local Users & Groups”
Double-click on “Users”
Right-click on your “User Name” and choose “Rename”
Rename your User Name to your “ NETWORK ID ” (refer to the Network Information sheet in your move-in packet for this information).
Double-click on your NETWORK ID and press “Enter”
Close the “Computer Management” Window
Windows XP Users: Go to Start --> Settings --> Control Panel Click on “Network and Internet Connections” Click on “Network Connections”
Windows 2000 Users: Go to Start --> Settings --> Network & Dial-up Connections
Right-click on “Local Area Network” Click on “Properties”
Click on “Install” Highlight “Client” and Click on “Add”
Highlight “Client Service for Netware” and Click “OK”
This will install files and prompt you to reboot your computer. Respond “Yes” to rebooting your computer.
Delete default username. Enter your NETWORK ID in username box. DO NOT enter a password.
Click on “OK” and login Select “Select Default Tree and Context”
Enter “MUHLENBERG” in the Tree box (MUST be typed in UPPERCASE)
Enter “.STUDENTS.ACADEMIC” in the Context box (MUST be typed in UPPERCASE)
Click in the “Run Login Script” box to add a check mark.
Click on “OK”
Enter NETWORK PASSWORD promptly. (refer to your move-in packet for this information). There is a timeout on this password login screen. If the box disappears, don’t panic. Go to Start, click logoff. You will get the “are you sure you want to logoff” message, click Yes. Now, restart at step #16 above.
At this point your computer will start the login process to ResNet. Once the your computer connects to ResNet you can continue with the following instructions.
Go to Start --> Settings --> Printers & Faxes
Click on “Add a Printer” then click on “Next”
Uncheck box for “Automatically detect and install my Plug and Play Printer” then select “Next”
In “Use the Following Port” box , select “LPT2: (Printer Port)” and Select “Next”
Under “Manufacturer” Select “HP”
Under “Printers” Select “HP Laserjet 4Plus”
Click on “Next”
Click on “Next”
Select “Yes” to print a test page, then click on “Next”
Click on “Next”
Click on “Finish”
Click on “OK”
Check the residence hall lab printer for your test page.




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















