






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















Vaccination Policy Update



A message to the Muhlenberg community from President Harring

Monday, August 9, 2021

Dear Colleagues,
Vaccination is the best protection against COVID-19 and a path toward a campus environment where all members of the community can thrive. As COVID-19 cases have increased in our area over the past weeks, Muhlenberg has taken a sequential approach, consistent with national, state and local health guidelines, for the health and safety of our campus community as we begin the fall semester. Since the vaccines were first available, the College has encouraged and supported vaccination with on-campus clinics and communications. This spring we implemented a vaccine requirement for our students. Surveys among faculty and staff show that we currently have a higher vaccination rate for these groups than the region or state; however, our local healthcare advisors are recommending a vaccination rate of 90%+ for our campus community. This past week we implemented a vaccine incentive program, offered a vaccination clinic, and we will now require all Muhlenberg faculty and staff employees to show proof of vaccination.
By August 23, all faculty and staff employees of the College are required to show that they are fully vaccinated, in the process of completing their vaccination, or must have applied for a medical or religious exemption. Faculty and staff employees who are partially vaccinated or who have received a medical or religious exemption will follow the same protocols as unvaccinated students, including weekly testing, masking and physical distancing indoors, and required quarantine periods in the event they have been exposed or tested positive for COVID-19. Failure to comply with the vaccination requirement or other safety protocols will be viewed as a violation of employee policy.
HR will be relating additional details about the process for submitting vaccination status and an application for a medical or religious exemption later this week. A FAQ outlining vaccination safety and effectiveness and other educational resources will also be provided. In recognition of this new policy, we have modified the vaccine incentive program to include faculty and staff who are in the process of completing their vaccination series. All employees must show proof of their vaccination status to Human Resources by August 23 to be eligible.
I am grateful for the ongoing strength of the Muhlenberg community, a community of care and compassion, as we continue to come together to prioritize and support the welfare of all members of our campus.
Thank you for your commitment and support.
Sincerely,
Katheen HarringPresident

 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















