






Community Communications | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 






Community Communications













Community Communications












Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Student Resources

Faculty and Staff Resources

Zoom Backgrounds

COVID-19 Campus Signage













Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCoronavirus Information (COVID-19)Community Communications 















COVID-19 Masking Policy Update - February 28



A message from President Harring and members of the Muhlenberg College leadership team

Friday, February 25, 2022

Dear Muhlenberg Community Members, Beginning Monday, February 28, the College will move to the Yellow Phase of our masking policy. Masks will still be required indoors for all individuals, regardless of vaccination status. At this level, as in the fall 2021 semester, there is discretion given to faculty in classroom settings, employees in their private offices and flexibility with regard to meetings as well as student club and organization rehearsals and performances. Masking is not required in residence halls. Details about the yellow phase can be found on the College COVID site. Changes in our COVID policies are based on College and local data and guidance from healthcare partners. We continue to see significant decreases in COVID cases on campus and in the region. Case rates in Lehigh County are similar to those seen in July 2021. In addition, over 90% of our College community is fully vaccinated which provides our community the best protection against severe illness. We will continue to monitor campus and local data and adjust the masking level as needed. Any changes will be done in a gradual manner informed by evidence for the health and safety of all members of the Muhlenberg community.We recognize that individual situations and comfort levels differ. We encourage students, faculty and staff to be sensitive to the needs and requests of others as we move back to the yellow phase. As a reminder, immunocompromised students should contact Dean Williams if you are interested in ongoing dialogue about ways the Dean of Students Office and Disability Services can continue to best support your safety and success. Faculty and staff should contact Jill Walsh in Human Resources. We continue to successfully navigate the pandemic because of the care and concern that the Muhlenberg community continues to show to one another. Thank you for your ongoing commitment and support.Sincerely, Kathleen Harring, PresidentJill Walsh, Vice President for Human Resources  Laura Furge, ProvostAllison Williams, Vice President for College Life & Dean of Students

 













More Information 





Community Communications



General Information



Student Resources



Faculty & Staff Policies



External Resources



Visitor Information 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















