






Application Process | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMath & Computer ScienceREUApplication Process 






Application Process














Application Process











MentorsProposed ProjectsApplication ProcessMCMCS REU Calendar of Events2016 Program2017 Program2018 Program











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMath & Computer ScienceREUApplication Process 











Application Process:

Review of applications will begin March 8, 2018 and will continue until all slots are filled.
The program entails nine weeks of intensive work during the summer; student participants are strongly encouraged to continue their projects during the following academic year. Because of the nine-week intensive effort and on-site participation, students should not commit to other activities (e.g., courses) during the REU program. We expect the program will select ten undergraduates to participate. Supplemental funding may allow for selecting an additional 5 to 8 undergraduate participants. Participants will have LVAIC faculty members and/or OEIS assistant editors as supervisors. 
To submit your online application,

go to https://www.mathprograms.org/db/programs/668, 
click on the link for "...as Program applicant" 
create an account, and 
follow the directions at our program's listing. 

Applicants should be undergraduates with a major in Mathematics, Computer Science, or a closely related STEM field. They should be current sophomores or juniors, although first year students with exceptionally strong backgrounds will be considered. In exceptional circumstances, seniors will be allowed into the program if they will not have graduated by the time the program begins. Preference will be given to students who will continue their research projects during the academic year, under the direction of either their supervisor or a faculty member from their home institution. Due to funding agency rules, only U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents who will be full time undergraduate students in Fall 2018 are eligible for funding support. Women, minorities, and students with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
 
Application Guidelines
We anticipate receiving a large number of applications. To ensure that your application will be properly processed, follow the online application guidelines below.

Be sure to list the project ID number in the proper format, e.g. Project17.01. Do not list the full title of the project.
Two letters of recommendation will be accepted this year.
PDF format files are preferred for all uploaded documents.
If you need to submit multiple transcripts, combine them all into one single PDF file.
Short answer responses should not exceed 400 characters and should avoid using symbols such as ampersands and colons.
You will be able to modify your application after you submit it. We may, however, not always see modifications committed after the review process begins.
The review process begins on March 8 and applications will be accepted until all positions are filled.

Be sure you have included the following items in your application.

Application form: including information that we need to contact you. Go to https://www.mathprograms.org/db/programs/668, click on the link for "...as Program applicant" and follow the directions at our program's listing.
Transcripts: current transcript--unofficial is OK--combined into one file with grades through Fall of this year.
Personal statement: This should be one page or less explaining why you are interested in the program, what you hope to get out of it, and describing your academic and non-academic interests.
Two recommendation letters: from faculty members or graduate teaching assistants, preferably in mathematics or computer science, who can discuss your potential to successfully complete a research project. Letters should not be submitted by email. A message with instructions on how to submit letters of recommendation will automatically be emailed to the recommender's email address provided by you in the application form.
Login again to update your application.

If you would like more information about the program, the supervisors, or suggested research projects, please contact the REU Coordinators Dr. Eugene Fiorini (eugenefiorini at muhlenberg dot edu) or Dr. Byungchul Cha (cha at muhlenberg dot edu) or call 484-664-3299.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















