






Karcher Michael | Muhlenberg College






















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu















Faculty Profiles























Michael  KarcherAssistant Professor, StatisticsMathematics & Computer ScienceTrumbower Science Buildingmichaelkarcher@muhlenberg.edu
Education

Ph.D., Statistics, University of Washington
B.A., Mathematics, Swarthmore College

Teaching Interests
I teach because I loved the statistics courses I've taken, and I want to share that with new generations of students. In my undergraduate studies, I loved probability and mathematical statistics, and so I am excited to get to teach those classes here. In graduate school, I enjoyed stochastic modeling enough to build my dissertation on it, and one of the things that drew me to Muhlenberg was its exciting new graduate program with opportunities to teach about stochastic modeling.I must also acknowledge that, unfortunately, not every student has such a positive relationship with statistics. Introductory statistics in particular has a somewhat harsh reputation as a difficult class, which I believe is not inherently warranted. In my teaching, I seek to make all of my statistics classes clear and accessible to all my students in order to share the enjoyment I had learning it.
Research, Scholarship or Creative/Artistic InterestsMost of my research has been in population genetics and phylodynamics. Both fields are related by using genetic sequence data samples (DNA or RNA from animals or viruses, for instance) to reconstruct a kind of family tree, called a genealogy, interrelating the ancestries of the members of the population that the samples were drawn from. You then have the option to use the genealogy to calculate estimates of the population size over time.In particular, I built a method for detecting if the samples were drawn using convenience sampling (drawn proportionally to the population) and if so, incorporating the extra information into the analysis. In more recent work, I developed a method for combining genealogies on overlapping samples into a set of genealogies on all of the samples, often referred to as supertrees.I have also spent some time doing research in cosmology and astrostatistics. I helped scientists design simulations of the early universe, tuning their models so as to end up matching as closely as possible the universe we observe today.


Courses Taught Include:Probability: Statistical Analysis: Stochastic Modeling for Analytics: 
Recent Publications, Presentations & AbstractsKarcher, M. D., Carvalho, L. M., Suchard, M. A., Dudas, G., & Minin, V. N. (2020). Estimating effective population size changes from preferentially sampled genetic sequences. PLoS computational biology, 16(10), e1007774.Karcher, M. D. (2018). Preferential sampling and model checking in phylodynamic inference (Doctoral dissertation).Tremmel, M, Karcher, M., Governato, F, Volonteri, M, Quinn, T, Pontzen, A, Anderson, L (2017). The Romulus Cosmological Simulations: A Physical Approach to the Formation, Dynamics and Accretion Models of SMBHs. Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 470(1).Anderson, L, Governato, F, Karcher, M, Quinn, T, Wadsley, J (2017). The Little Galaxies that Could (Reionize the Universe): Predicting Faint End Slopes & Escape Fractions at z > 4. Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 468(4).Karcher, M, Palacios JA, Bedford T, Suchard MA, Minin VN (2016). Quantifying and Mitigating the Effect of Preferential Sampling on Phylodynamic Inference. PLoS Computational Biology 12(3): e1004789.Karcher, M, Palacios JA, Lan, S, Minin VN (2016). PHYLODYN: an R package for phylodynamic simulation and inference. Molecular Ecology Resources 17(1): 96-100.Lan, S, Palacios, JA, Karcher, M, Minin, VN, and Shahbaba, B (2015). An efficient Bayesian inference framework for coalescent-based nonparametric phylodynamics. Bioinformatics 31(20): 3282-3289.

Go Back to Search >>



















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 


















