






Meet the Staff | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AdmissionsNew StudentsMeet the Staff 






Meet the Staff













Meet the Staff











First-Year StudentsTransfer StudentsFamiliesWelcome WeekendCampus ChecklistMeet the Staff











Home
AdmissionsNew StudentsMeet the Staff 











Orientation Team Leaders
 



Ben Eber '23 (he/him)
Hometown: Denver, CO
Major: Physics and Math
What's your favorite thing about Muhlenberg? All the opportunity to get involved and do new things!
 



Allie Gleeson '23 (she/her)
Hometown: Boonton Township, NJ
Major: Media and Communications and Dance concentratining in Dance Science
What's one piece of advice you have for new students? I think my favorite piece of advice that I can give to new students is to step out of your comfort zone. Yes, it can be scary to not do something that is comfortable however for me stepping out of my comfort zone and trying something new has given me some of the best experiences that I have had on campus. I let myself try something new and in doing this I have gained a lot of different experiences in things I never thought I would. But the only way I was allowed to gain these experiences was by stepping out of my comfort zone.
 



Shira Holtz '24 (she/her)
Hometown: White Plains, NY
Major: Theater and Media and Communication
What's your favorite thing about Muhlenberg? My favorite thing about Muhlenberg is definitely the community! I came from a high school that's much smaller than Muhlenberg, and I was worried coming in that I would hardly know anyone on campus. But through classes, getting involved in clubs and other organizations, and the general way that Muhlenberg students interact with each other, I've made so many friends and know so many students and faculty on campus. And while I know lots of people in the general campus community, the organizations that I'm a part of form additional mini communities on campus. Everyone truly wants everyone else to succeed and Muhlenberg is a close-knit community which is exactly what I wanted when I came to college!
 



Britney Jara '23 (she/her)
Hometown: Bronx, NY
Major: Psychology
What's your favorite thing about Muhlenberg? From the moment I was a first year at Muhlenberg, I immediately received many different opportunities to showcase my different passions and leadership skills. What drew me in the most about Muhlenberg was being able to become a leader here whether you're a first year or a senior. Many can attest that all students here are involved in many things, and it's truly what makes this school so unique. You can be a Biology major and be involved in Theatre, or a History major and involved in sports. I am involved in a range of different things and I've been able to find what really makes me thrive. The intersectionality of passions, skills, and involvement continue to amaze me.
 



Alissa Le '23 (she/her)
Hometown: Allentown, PA
Major: Neuroscience
What's your favorite thing about Muhlenberg? I love Muhlenberg because of the close relationships I am able to develop with the faculty and staff! Despite any difficult transitions or moments I may have, I know that my support system on campus is able to help me through it all.
 



Dylan De Magistris '24 (he/him)
Hometown: Emerson, NJ
Major: Music and Finance
What's one piece of advice you have for new students? Be open-minded and willing to talk to new people. It is important to realize that all the other first-years are in the same position as you and seeking friendships.
 
Student Transitions Intern
 



Lindsey Kessler '23 (she/her)
Hometown: Atlanta, GA
Major: Jewish Students and Pre K - 4 Elementary Education Certificate Track
What's one piece of advice you have for new students? Don't be afraid to ask for help! One of the best parts about Muhlenberg is the strong community you are now a part of. Resources are all around you including your peers, professors, staff members, and more! People always want to help you and see you succeed in your college experience.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















