






President's Office: BOO | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentBoard of ObserversPresident's Office: BOO 






President's Office: BOO
A System for Evaluating Muhlenberg's Academic and Administrative Departments













President's Office: BOO











BiographyThe Inauguration of Kathleen HarringStrategic InitiativesMessages and SpeechesPresident's ReportsOffice HoursSenior StaffBoard of TrusteesWeiss FellowshipPresident's Advisory CouncilPast Presidents











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentBoard of ObserversPresident's Office: BOO 











A System for Evaluating Muhlenberg's Academic and Administrative Departments (rev. 12/28/03)

Introduction
This proposal calls for a program of regularly scheduled internal and external reviews of Muhlenberg's academic and administrative departments, in order to:

foster a culture of self-evaluation, continuous improvement, and accountability;
provide regular occasions for assessment and the review of planning at the departmental level;
communicate Muhlenberg's strengths to the broader academic world;
create a broader base of volunteer leadership and philanthropic support for the College by engaging distinguished alumni, parents, and friends in substantive work that will develop them as informed advocates and potential future candidates for the Board of Trustees.

A pool of up to sixty (60) Observers will be elected by the Board of Trustees. Each Observer will be expected to participate in at least one visiting committee to an academic or administrative department during every four-year term.
Visiting Committees will be comprised of 2-3 Observers and 1-2 visiting experts (a faculty member or professional from a comparable institution with expertise in the appropriate field). Campus visits will be preceded by a departmental self-study, sent to Visiting Committee members well in advance. A 2-day campus visit will provide the Visiting Committee with opportunities to meet with the President, appropriate Dean, Provost, and/or Vice President, Department Head, faculty members, students, and faculty/staff in other departments that interact with the department or program being visited. Following the campus visit, the Visiting Committee will submit a written report to the President of the College who will share it with the relevant department and solicit a written response. Each report and response will be submitted to the appropriate committee of the Board of Trustees for review and discussion.
 

Election of Observers and Terms of Service Names of Observer candidates will be submitted to the President of the College for consideration by the Nominating Committee of the Board. After appropriate consideration and discussion, the Nominating Committee may vote to recommend candidates to the full Board of Trustees for election. Observers will be elected by the Board of Trustees for four-year terms (renewable for a second consecutive four-year term before a mandatory break-year). For the first four years of the program, 15 candidates will be chosen each year, to provide a pool of 60 overseers with staggered terms. After their election, new Observers will participate in an orientation program with new Trustees and will indicate departments they are interested in reviewing. Every Observer will be expected to participate in at least one visiting committee to an academic or administrative department within each four-year term.


Composition of Visiting Committees Each summer, the President will compare the proposed schedule of departmental visits with the recorded departmental preferences of Observers and consult with the appropriate Provost/Dean/Vice President and Department Head to assemble a provisional Visiting Committee. Outside Experts will be nominated by the Department Head in consultation with his/her department and the Provost/Dean/Vice President, will be approved by the President, and will be invited to serve by the Provost/Dean/Vice President. After consulting Observers and proposed Visiting Experts about their availability, visits will be scheduled throughout the fall and spring semesters.


Logistical Support The President's Office will work with the Provost/Dean/Vice President and Department Head to develop and implement a timetable for production and distribution of the departmental self-study and logistics for the visit.

 

Expenses Costs will include honoraria, travel expenses, lodging and meals for the Visiting Experts and meals and lodging for Observers. Costs will be borne by the President's Office. 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















