






LGBTQ+ | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentMessages and SpeechesOffice of Multicultural LifeLGBTQ+ 






Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Plus(LGBTQ+)














LGBTQ+











Bold Strokes BooksLGBT GlossaryLGBT Student GuideStudents for Queer Advocacy











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentMessages and SpeechesOffice of Multicultural LifeLGBTQ+ 












Muhlenberg is a campus and a community where all are welcome. We know that each member of our student body, faculty, staff, alumni and parent network makes us a better whole.

Our Office of Multicultural Life(OML) serves as a facilitator and advocate for the needs and concerns of our LGBTQIAP+ community. OML seeks to ensure that policies and practices that impact student life are both equitable and inclusive.
In addition to staff and administrative advocacy, there are two student groups, Students for Queer Advocacy (S.Qu.Ad.) and Muhlenberg Trans Advocacy Coalition (M.T.A.C.), that act as communal and educational networks for LGBTQIA students and their allies.
S.Qu.Ad. supports LGBTQIAP+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning, intersex, asexual/aromantic, pansexual, etc.) students on Muhlenberg's campus. We are an advocacy group focused on creating a safe-space both inside and outside of our meetings.
We strive to (A) reach out to the campus and wider community to educate and promote LGBTQIAP+ issues (B) create a safe-space where LGBTQIAP+ individuals and their allies can learn about, come to terms with and advocate for multiple expressions of sexuality, gender identity and gender expression (C) provide social activities for LGBTQIAP+ individuals and their allies (D) be an active part of the wider multicultural community on campus, alongside the other Multicultural Center organizations (E) restore and maintain a physical safe-space of the Pride House, which is free of discrimination and open to everyone.
MTAC is a multicultural organization that aims to support all individuals that fall on the trans spectrum on campus. Specifically, this is done through social justice work, advocating for policy change, and educating our campus community.







Robin Riley-Casey
Director of Multicultural Life & Multicultural Center2252 Chew StreetAllentown, PA 18104(484) 664-3228

robinriley-casey@muhlenberg.edu































Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















