






Gallery Walk Introduction | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueGallery Walk Introduction 






Gallery Walk Introduction














Gallery Walk Introduction











Goal 1 InitiativesGoal 2 InitiativesGoal 3 InitiativesGoal 4 InitiativesGoal 5 InitiativesGoal 6 Initiatives











Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueGallery Walk Introduction 











An Introduction to the Process
The Diversity Strategic Planning Committee has developed initiatives associated with each of its six Diversity Strategic Planning Goals.  The Committee then solicited initiative submissions from the College community – faculty, staff, students, and trustees.  Subcommittees of the DSPC engaged in an initial review of these initiatives.  All submitters were asked to indicate which goal(s) their initiative addressed.  In some cases, subcommittees felt that a particular initiative might be more closely aligned to a goal different from those named by the submitter; in those cases, initiatives were considered by the subcommittee under the new goal.  If you do not see your initiative beneath the goal under which it was submitted, look for it under other goals.  All submitted initiatives appear on at least one of the following pages.
Subcommittees were asked to assign each initiative an initial ranking, based on how closely the initiative supports the goal, as well as other factors – the cost of the initiative, the scope of the initiative and the impact of the initiative on the community.





GREEN:  This is an initiative that the subcommittee feels closely aligns with its Goal, and deserves closer study.  A cost estimate will be undertaken by the DSPC as part of the prioritization and initiative decision-making process





YELLOW:  This is an initiative that the subcommittee feels will need further study and deliberation by the DSPC before advancing to the next round of deliberations.  The initiative may have a narrow impact, or may be prohibitively expensive.  It also might be too aspirational to accomplish in the first Diversity Strategic Plan.





RED:  This is an initiative that the subcommittee feels does not align closely with its particular goal, or may not be an optimal use of the College’s limited resources.  At this juncture, the subcommittee likely does not intend to pursue further work on this initiative.




HOWEVER, these rankings should in no way be considered FINAL.  It is also important to note that they are the rankings of one subcommittee, not the entire DSPC – in fact, you may see the same initiative ranked differently by different subcommittees.  This online Gallery Walk is an opportunity for the community to see each subcommittee’s initial rankings and respond in a constructive way.  Please give us feedback; it will be crucially important as the Committee proceeds with its work in the weeks to come.  We will be accepting feedback through this website through Wednesday, April 30.
Click on a goal below to view the initiatives.

Goal #1:   Cultivate a campus community that is supportive of inclusion, justice and social equality.
Goal #2:   Actively recruit and retain a student body with increasing numbers of students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups. 
Goal #3:   Actively recruit and retain more faculty and staff from those racial and ethnic groups that have had limited access to careers in higher education. 
Goal #4:   Strengthen the depth and complexity of teaching and learning about diversity.
Goal #5:   Engage more deeply with the diverse communities of Allentown and the Lehigh Valley.
Goal #6:   Assign responsibility for the measurement, assessment, and coordination of diversity initiatives.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















