






Goal 6 Initiatives | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueGallery Walk IntroductionGoal 6 Initiatives 






Goal 6 Initiatives














Goal 6 Initiatives











Goal 1 InitiativesGoal 2 InitiativesGoal 3 InitiativesGoal 4 InitiativesGoal 5 InitiativesGoal 6 Initiatives











Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueGallery Walk IntroductionGoal 6 Initiatives 











Goal 6 Initiatives




 


#5 Comprehensive Review of All Existing Policies & Practices 
A proposal to review thoroughly all existing policies and practices in order to ensure diversity best practices are met.
Research needed on staffing and financial resources necessary to complete this initiative. We propose that the DSPC cost-out and flesh-out two possible avenues for this initiative – a) using an external consultant and b) using internal resources. We affirm the importance of this comprehensive review, and want to ensure that it will occur internally, even if the DSPC determines that it is not possible to hire an external consultant to perform this review.  This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and will have broad and deep impact on campus.







#14 External Auditors
Proposal to hire a professional, neutral and experienced external consulting group to oversee and possibly implement the phases of this initiative. Consultant(s) would consult with many College stakeholders as part of this audit.
Research needed on cost of external consultant.  This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and the College’s mission and will have broad and deep impact on campus.







#35 Intergroup Relations Program
The Intergroup Relations Program, a partnership of the Provost’s Office and the Office of Multicultural Life, would work to foster conditions for intergroup contact that include ‘equal status between the groups, opportunities for self revealing interactions, and equalitarian norms endorsed by relevant authority.’ Additionally, the IGR would seek to create shared knowledge and vocabulary around intergroup relations more generally.
Research needed on staffing and financial resources necessary to complete this initiative. This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and will have broad and deep impact on campus.







#65 Diversity Assessment Mechanisms
Regularly assess campus climate, diversity-related programming and student learning using a variety of surveys, community conversations, and other tools.
This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6. Research needed on staff/financial resources needed.







#56 Assessment of DSPC Goal #2: “Actively recruit and retain a student body with increasing numbers of students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups.”
Assess Admissions recruitment practices, support structures and retention of students.
Research needed on staffing and financial resources necessary to complete this initiative. This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and will have broad and deep impact on campus.







#63 Assessment of DSPC Goal #3: “Actively recruit and retain more faculty and staff from those racial and ethnic groups that have had limited access to careers in higher education.”
Assess hiring practices, support structures and retention of faculty and staff.
Research needed on staffing and financial resources necessary to complete this initiative. This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and will have broad and deep impact on campus.







#67 Diversity Office/Administrator
Appoint central office & person to collect, organize, and disseminate all campus-wide programming, HDGE courses, activities and events in the Lehigh Valley, and training opportunities, that are distinctly connected to diversity.
This initiative powerfully advances Goal 6 and will have broad & deep impact on campus. Research needed on potential staffing configurations and costs.







#68 Diversity Public Relations
Develop effective internal and external communication efforts that signal a clear message that diversity is a core institutional value
This initiative powerfully advances Goal 6 and will have broad & deep impact on campus. Research needed on staff and financial resources needed to fulfill initiative.







#70 Further Funding for Diversity Initiatives
Develop financial resources that will enable the College to fully meet its diversity strategic planning goals.
Research needed on how necessary to complete this initiative. This initiative very powerfully advances goal #6 and will have broad and deep impact on campus, especially over the long run.







#10 Diversity Component to Teacher Evaluations Yellow
This initiative proposes the addition of a diversity component to end-of-semester course evaluations.
Exploration needed on various instructor evaluation options and related costs. Integration with DLE and HERI surveys important. DLE and HERI surveys can provide institutional longitudinal assessment of new initiatives or faculty development approaches.







#69 Diversity & Equity Committee
Create a Committee on Diversity and Equity, including members of the Board, employees, alumni, and students to oversee and make recommendations about engagements with diversity in hiring, admission, development, curriculum, and campus life.
Further research needed on this initiative to assess the potential for broad/deep impact and potential cost.







#45 Promotion of Diversity-Related Events Red 
A proposal to provide incentives for students to attend diversity-related events, such as extra credit or class requirements.
This initiative is not feasible because we cannot insist that faculty require their students to attend diversity events. The core concern of this initiative – encouraging students to attend events – can be accomplished in other ways. 




We did not evaluate the following initiatives because they seem more closely aligned with other goals: 

#8  Diversity Appreciation Requirement
#16  Faculty Diversity & Safe Space Training
#20  Full-time personnel to assist Multicultural Life
#39  Meeting Points Series


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















