






DSPC Goals | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueDSPC Goals 






DSPC Goals














DSPC Goals











Statement on DiversityDSPC GoalsGallery Walk Introduction











Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionDocuments, Plans and StrategiesDiversity Strategic Plan DialogueDSPC Goals 











DRAFT Diversity Strategic Planning Goals
To the Muhlenberg Community:
Thanks to the many faculty, students, staff, and trustees who participated in small group discussions of the draft diversity statement, who attended the forum to discuss the draft diversity plan goals, or who commented on these documents electronically.  The diversity statement subcommittee, co-chaired by Janine Chi and Troy Dwyer, is conducting a close analysis of community comments on the draft.  They promise to circulate a revised draft later this spring.
The entire DSPC has reviewed the comments on the draft goals and have made several important changes as a result of this feedback. The Revised Goals are:
Goal #1:   Cultivate a campus community that is supportive of inclusion, justice and social equality.
Goal #2:   Actively recruit and retain a student body with increasing numbers of students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups.  1
Goal #3:   Actively recruit and retain more faculty and staff from those racial and ethnic groups that have had limited access to careers in higher education.
Goal #4:   Strengthen the depth and complexity of teaching and learning about diversity. 2
Goal #5:   Engage more deeply with the diverse communities of Allentown and the Lehigh Valley.
Goal #6:   Assign responsibility for the measurement, assessment, and coordination of diversity initiatives.

Cordially,


Randy Helm
Footnotes:
1 While Goals 2 and 3 both speak to recruitment and retention, the language in the goals is somewhat different to reflect differences particularly in the "recruitment" portion of each goal.  While faculty recruitment tends to be quite individualized and targeted, admissions recruitment needs to employ the widest possible funnel at the very front end of the recruitment process (which then becomes more targeted and individualized as the process moves forward).  One process tends to be one-at-a-time and targeted, while the other needs to generate volume on an annual basis, and so casts the widest possible net at the outset.
2 Many community members felt that the word “academic,” which was used in the original phrasing of this goal, only had implications for the curricular program.  They pointed out that teaching and learning at Muhlenberg is not restricted to the classroom, and does not occur only between a teaching faculty member and a learning student. Indeed, students also learn from staff members (who usually have differing roles than faculty members) and from one another.  The faculty and staff too engage in ongoing learning, from each other, as well as from students. While this goal certainly has implications for both the curriculum and for faculty development, it seeks to exercise Muhlenberg’s existing engagement as a vibrant intellectual community in which everyone teaches and everyone learns.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















