






Senior Year Experience | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveSenior Year Experience 






Senior Year Experience














Senior Year Experience











19th Street Development50th Anniversary of Co-EdCampus Safety InitiativesRelay for LifeCampus Alcohol DiscussionGreek Life Task ForceMulticultural CenterPolicy on Partisan Political Activity Senior Year ExperienceService Learning RecognitionSummer Programs











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveSenior Year Experience 












Presidential Task Force on the Senior Year Experience
As an institution and a community we are committed to continuous improvement – setting high standards for ourselves, achieving them, and then raising the bar for ourselves again. Complacency is not one of our core values. Thus, although the College is already distinguished for its powerful educational outcomes (demonstrated by the impressive accomplishments of our graduates), Muhlenberg should think boldly and intentionally about our students’ senior year experience. Can we provide our seniors with more effective opportunities for integration of the intellectual skills they have mastered so that they may leave campus with a more nuanced appreciation of their liberal arts education? Can we furnish more deliberately thoughtful opportunities for reflection so that they graduate with a deeper perspective on their own development, their strengths and weaknesses, and their potential for lifelong education? Can we offer more creatively designed opportunities to prepare them for the transition from the so-called Muhlenberg “bubble” to a rich, full, and independent adulthood?
The first of these questions is primarily curricular and can most properly be addressed by our faculty, working through its existing committee structure. This is an opportune moment for such deliberations, as the Academic Policy Committee (APC) has already begun a full scale review of Muhlenberg’s curriculum.
Our investigation of the other two issues – reflection and transition – are also of deep interest to the faculty. However, they require a wider range of perspectives. To that end I have convened a task force on the Senior Year Experience (SYE) comprised of faculty, students, staff, alumni, and parents. This group will assess existing institutional data, develop additional data if necessary, consult broadly within our community, think creatively, and offer specific proposals for my consideration.
It will be important for members of the Muhlenberg community to keep abreast of these deliberations and to have regular opportunities to weigh in with observations and advice. This website is intended to facilitate such communication.
I hope all members of our community will share their thoughts, experiences, and suggestions during the coming year as we work together to make Muhlenberg’s senior year an even more powerful and positive culmination to an extraordinary four years of undergraduate education.
Ideas, observations, and/or reflections on Muhlenberg’s senior year experience may be sent directly to the Provost Majorie Hass chair of the Reflections Subcommittee, to Dean of Students Karen Green chair of the Transition Subcommittee, to Professor Ted Conner chair of the Academic Policy Committee, or to me.
Randy Helm President November, 2006


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















