






Multicultural Center | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveMulticultural Center 






Multicultural Center














Multicultural Center











19th Street Development50th Anniversary of Co-EdCampus Safety InitiativesRelay for LifeCampus Alcohol DiscussionGreek Life Task ForceMulticultural CenterPolicy on Partisan Political Activity Senior Year ExperienceService Learning RecognitionSummer Programs











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveMulticultural Center 













MULTICULTURAL CENTER MISSION STATEMENT
President’s Charge: “1. A clear mission statement for the Center.” 11/15/05
The mission of the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center is to serve as a campus-wide resource that facilitates and promotes a learning community of multicultural understanding and exchange through collaboration, dialogue, and action. Under the collaborative direction of an Advisory Board comprised of students, faculty, staff, parents, alumni, and friends, the Center is committed to promoting and sustaining an inclusive atmosphere that fosters and enriches multicultural understanding among all members of the Muhlenberg and Lehigh Valley community. Through partnerships with other campus programming bodies, the Center supports and provides a focus for educational, cultural, and social programming that enriches and challenges Muhlenberg’s campus on issues of multiculturalism and difference. The Center aims to provide a supportive and safe space on campus for its multicultural students, faculty, and staff, and works to challenge acts of prejudice and ideologies of intolerance while seeking to advocate for all marginalized communities and cultures visible on Muhlenberg’s campus. The Center strives to nurture and promote the academic success and leadership development of multicultural students at Muhlenberg. The Center also aids in strengthening Muhlenberg’s connection with the Lehigh Valley community by initiating and supporting related events and programs.
MULTICULTURAL CENTER MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
President’s Charge: “2. A volunteer management structure for the Center and its programs that involves students, staff, and faculty.” 11/15/05
Introduction:
The Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center will serve as a resource for our current campus community, a magnet for a growing multicultural population on campus and as an interface with the local Lehigh Valley community. These concurrent goals are best served by an Advisory Board composed of representatives of those stakeholder communities who are invested in the success of the Center. At the behest of the College, the Center board will have responsibility for the programming, marketing, staffing, resource development and, with the College administration, the assessment of the Center. The board will intentionally represent the diversity of cultures served by the Center. Board membership will be comprised of members of the Muhlenberg College community in its broadest sense. The Advisory Board will be drawn representatively from Muhlenberg College administration, staff, alumni, faculty, parents, students, and members of the Lehigh Valley community.
Ten Basic Responsibilities of the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center Board
1. Advance the mission and purpose of the Center.
2. Work with the College to define the role of the Director of Multicultural Life in the
Center.
3. Support the staff and, with the College administration, assess staff performance.
4. Ensure effective organizational planning.
5. Ensure adequate resources.
6. Ensure resources are effectively managed.
7. Evaluate, monitor and strengthen the organization’s programs and services.
8. Enhance the public standing of the Center.
9. Ensure ethical integrity and maintain accountability of the Center.
10. Recruit and orient new board members and assess board performance.
MULTICULTURAL CENTER LIST OF RESOURCES
President’s Charge: “3. Examples of resources that might be acquired for and located in the Center.” 11/15/05
A list of required resources was appended to the proposal.
MULTICULTURAL CENTER PROGRAMMING
President’s Charge: “4. A description of programming that the Center would undertake with current multicultural life resources.” 11/15/05
A list of proposed programming is grouped in the following ways: Campus-wide, Student-focused, Organization-focused, and Community Outreach. Brief examples of proposed events and programming are provided.
Campus-wide
These events are designed to be open to the campus community. The purpose of this programming can range from informal social events to more formal events with invited speakers etc.
1. One-time events:-
§ Faculty Center for Teaching Events: Workshops and forums that deal with diversity-related pedagogical issues and discussions.
§ Non-Violence Day: Yearly program that highlights the work of Gandhi and celebrates non-violence day.
§ Leadership Weekends: In collaboration with Student Leadership Development. Featuring leaders within the Muhlenberg College to encourage increased leadership within organizations and the campus community.
§ Receptions and Event Dinners: For various invited campus speakers (ex. Brenda Dixon Gottschild, Ken Carter, Dr. Pedro Noguera)
§ Multicultural Achievement Dinner and Honors: Event celebrating leaders of campus who have made an effort through the past year to enhance the multicultural campus community.
§ Diversity library programming: Library will contain books about multicultural heritage and history that is available to campus community with possible programming around the resources.
§ Progressive Dinner: A dinner stop that is open to the campus community. Event features food from the backgrounds of members of the community and networking with faculty, staff, and students.
2. Regularly scheduled events:
§ Brown-Bag Lunches (theme-based)
§ Movie Night and Discussions: Each multicultural student organization sponsors a movie and hosts a post-movie discussion.
Student-focused 
These events are generally student-focused and/or student-organized. These events are intended to provide students space for specific organization meetings, extra-curricular and academic meetings and events. Such events cater to multicultural student organizations, but may include all students on campus.
1. One-time events:
§ Multicultural success program: Program that will encourage first-year students on topics of study tips, test preparation, and involvement with campus community. Subsequent events can focus on sophomores, juniors, and seniors for career, professional school information.
§ Study Abroad Information Events: Organized by Office for International Programs to give students information on various study-abroad programs.
§ Welcome Back meeting for Multicultural Students: Yearly welcome meeting to new students and returning multicultural students.
2. Regularly scheduled events:
§ Student Socials: Organized by student groups.
§ Study Sessions: Weekly sessions where students can meet for study or academic-related discussion.
Organization-focused
These events center on specific organization events. Such events may be part of the specific organization’s programming agenda. Such organizations come under the umbrella of multicultural affairs.
§ LVAIC Minority Coalition Meetings
§ Multicultural Council Meetings
§ Practice meetings: Soul Sound Steppers
§ Meetings for multicultural student organizations: GSA, Soul Sound Steppers, MINT, BSA, ISA/ASA, Communidad Latina etc.
§ Multicultural faculty/staff forums
Community Outreach
The center can host events that specifically are designed to reach out and maintain good working relations with various Allentown community organizations.
1. Existing initiatives:
§ The IMPACT Project: A program that runs each semester that enables Muhlenberg students and Allentown youth currently on probation to form meaningful mentoring relationships. The group meets on the Muhlenberg campus each week and a Multicultural Center would be a great venue to host the program a few times a semester. This opportunity would help to motivate them to continue their current education and perhaps motivate them to pursue further education.
§ Casa Guadalupe: A local Hispanic community center that currently runs a program for elderly Allentown citizens. The Multicultural Center would be a great host site for a few activities as it would provide the senior citizens a comfortable location to meet and it would provide both the elderly and Muhlenberg students the opportunity to share with each other from their differing perspectives and world experiences. Programs could include the senior citizens and students cooking a meal together to share as a cultural experience with other Muhlenberg students.
2. Implement new initiatives:
§ Dieruff High School: A number of students in the Comunidad Latina organization have invested much thought and action into beginning a program with students at Dieruff High School. The Multicultural Center would provide a great, relaxed venue for Muhlenberg students to expose Dieruff students to a college campus and to provide an SAT and college preparation program.
§ ESL site: The Center as a facility will provide a site appropriate for hosting varied community programs as needs arise. For example, should a need arise for a new site for an ESL class, the Center would be a great location especially since many Muhlenberg students already volunteer on various sites in Allentown.
Budget for Programming Activities
The above listed programs rely primarily on existing funding sources, such as Office of Multicultural Life, International Programs Office, and Community Services. Additional funding will come from Faculty Center for Teaching and Center for Ethics, and any future endowments to be created for the Center.


MULTICULTURAL CENTER FACILITY AND ADVISORY BOARD BYLAWS
Amended by vote, 11/20/07 Advisory Board ByLaws
 
ARTICLE I
NAME The name of the center will be Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center.
ARTICLE II
PURPOSE
The purpose of the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center is to serve as a campus-wide resource that facilitates and promotes a learning community of multicultural understanding and exchange through collaboration, dialogue, and action. Under the collaborative direction of an Advisory Board comprised of students, faculty, staff, parents, alumni, and friends, the Center is committed to promoting and sustaining an inclusive atmosphere that fosters and enriches multicultural understanding among all members of the Muhlenberg and Lehigh Valley community. Through partnerships with other campus programming bodies, the Center supports and provides a focus for educational, cultural, and social programming that enriches and challenges Muhlenberg’s campus on issues of multiculturalism and difference. The Center aims to provide a supportive and safe space on campus for its multicultural students, faculty, and staff, and works to challenge acts of prejudice and ideologies of intolerance while seeking to advocate for all marginalized communities and cultures visible on Muhlenberg’s campus. The Center strives to nurture and promote the academic success and leadership development of multicultural students at Muhlenberg. The Center also aids in strengthening Muhlenberg’s connection with the Lehigh Valley community by initiating and supporting related events and programs.
ARTICLE III
ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1 – Responsibilities
The Advisory Board will give advice to the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center and will oversee all activities of the Center. It will insure that the Center is mission-oriented in order to enhance campus life for all members of the Muhlenberg College community. It will provide guidance and direction to the staff of the Office of Multicultural Life and to the student boards represented at the Center. The Board, in cooperation with the Treasurer of Muhlenberg College, will oversee financial matters. In cooperation with the administration of Muhlenberg College, the Board will set all appropriate policies pertaining to the use of the Multicultural Center. Individual board members will be responsible to attend board meetings, make an annual financial contribution to the College on behalf of the Center, serve on a committee of the board and attend at least one Center function annually.
Section 2 – Membership and Composition
The Advisory Board will consist of no fewer than twenty (20) members and no more than thirty (30) members, including those on the Executive Committee. The Advisory Board will be drawn representatively from Muhlenberg College administration, staff, alumni, faculty, parents, students, and members of the Lehigh Valley community. A minimum of two representatives will be drawn from each constituency, with alumni, parents and the Lehigh Valley community constituting one constituency. Board members will represent the diversity of cultures served by the Center as well as the majority culture at Muhlenberg College. The Director of Multicultural Life or her/his successor shall serve ex officio on the Advisory Board and all Committees of the Board.
The maximum number of administrative staff on the Board shall be no more than seven (7); the maximum number of faculty on the Board shall be no more than eight (8); the maximum number of students on the Board shall be no more than eight (8); and the maximum number of alumni and/or parents and/or members of the Lehigh Valley Community on the Board shall be no more than seven (7).
Members of the Executive Committee of the Advisory Board will consist of three (3) Officers: a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, and a Secretary, as well as the Chairperson of the following committees of the board: (1) Programming/Campus Life, (2) College and Community Relations/Marketing, (3) Resource Development, (4) Facilities, and (5) Nominating/Board Development; and two (2) At Large student members elected by vote of the Board.
Section 3 – Terms of Office
Members of the Advisory Board will serve terms of three (3) years in duration. Members may serve no more than two (2) consecutive terms, and may not be eligible for re-election to the board for a period of one (1) year following the end of their second three-year term. The officers of the Advisory Board will be voted upon by all members of the board. The term of office will be two years. The officers may be re-elected to one-year terms on an annual basis. A simple majority will be needed to elect all officers.
Section 4 – Meetings
The Advisory Board shall meet at least two (2) times a year and, in addition, shall meet at the call of the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall call a special meeting of the Board upon written request of a majority of its members.
At least fifty per cent of the seated members of the Board must be present to constitute a quorum; business shall be conducted by majority vote of those present and voting, unless otherwise specified in these bylaws.
For purposes of determining whether a member of the Board is “present” at a Board meeting, a Board member is deemed present if participating in the meeting via speakerphone.
Board votes may also be conducted by email as follows: The Chairperson or Secretary shall send an email setting forth a proposed action and requesting the Board to vote on the proposed action within ten (10) days of transmission of the email by sending a reply email to the Secretary. The Chairperson or Secretary must take steps to ensure that each Board member has received notice or has waived receipt of notice. If and only if a quorum of the Board has voted on the proposed action by the expiration of the ten-day period, the motion shall be deemed to be acted upon, and it will be deemed to be approved or rejected depending upon the votes of those present and voting. Any such action on the part of the Board by email will formally be recorded in the minutes of the next Board meeting. For purposes of these bylaws, a member is deemed present and voting if the member votes by email.
Section 5 – Election of Officers and Board Members
By no later than March 1 of each year, the Nominating/Board Development Committee will solicit nominations (including re-nominations of current Board members) for all positions that are up for election in the current year, including in applicable years, for officer positions.
The Nominating/Board Development Committee shall submit its slate of candidates (one candidate for each position that is up for election) to the board members by no later than March 15 of each year. The slate of nominees submitted by the Committee shall take into account the representative constituency requirements of Article III, Section 2 of these bylaws. The slate of nominees submitted by the Committee shall consist of:

(a)In odd-numbered years, one nomination for each of the following: Chairperson Vice Chairperson Secretary Up to eleven (11) at-large positions
(b)In even-numbered years, one nomination for each of the following: Up to fifteen (15) at-large positions

A person who was not nominated by the Nominating/Board Development Committee for a Board or Officer Position may seek office by presenting the Chair of the Nominating/Board Development Committee with a slate of candidates within ten (10) days of the transmission of the Committee's slate. Nominations will not be accepted thereafter.
By no later than April 1 of each year, and with a minimum of fifteen (15) days before the final meeting of the academic year, the Chair of the Nominating and Board Development Committee shall cause to be emailed or mailed to the board members a ballot setting forth the Committee slate and any other slate(s) of candidates that has been offered. The Advisory Board will vote on the ballot at its final meeting of the academic year.
The newly elected or re-elected Board will assume offices (or continue in their offices) as of July 1 annually.
Section 6 – Removal of Members of the Advisory Board
Any board member may call for the termination of a board member or Officer of the Board. The member calling for such action must present his/her request to the Executive Committee stating clearly the reason for the suggested removal. The matter will be referred to the full Board for consideration at the next regular or special Board meeting. At the meeting, the Board will hear the recommendation of the Executive Committee on the issue, if any, and will hear from the board member who initiated the removal process, and the board member who is the subject of the removal request if either of them wishes to address the Board. A majority vote is required to remove a board member, but a minimum of twenty (20) members must be present and voting in order for a vote to remove a board member to be valid. The member in question must have been given at least twenty (20) days prior written notice of the proposed Board vote and the grounds therefore.
Section 7 – Vacancies on the Board
Vacancies on the Advisory Board will be filled as necessary when they occur. The Nominating/Board Development Committee will make the full board aware of such vacancies and will solicit a nomination for each such vacancy that will be presented to and voted upon by the full board within one month of the vacancy, where practicable.
Vacancies in any position may be filled for the remainder of the term of election by vote of the Advisory Board, except as otherwise provided in these by-laws.
Section 8 – Honorary Board Members
Any board member may, at any time, submit to the Nominating Committee a name of an individual to serve as an Honorary Member of the Advisory Board. The Nominating Committee will present the nomination to the full board for a vote. Honorary Board members will not have any of the duties and responsibilities of other board members. Honorary Board members will have voice but not vote on any actions of the Board. Honorary Board Members may serve for life.
Section 9 – Student Liaisons
The Asian Student Association/International Student Association, Black Student Association, Communidad Latina, and Gay-Straight Alliance, or their successors, shall be provided the opportunity to elect one (1) representative to serve as a Liaison to the Advisory Board. Liaisons will represent the interests of their respective organizations on the Board with voice, but not vote, and shall communicate on the Board’s behalf with their organizations. The Board will approve the appointment of all Liaisons, and reserves the right to determine which student organizations should be represented with student liaisons to the Board.
 
ARTICLE IV
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Section 1 – Composition
Members of the Executive Committee of the Advisory Board will consist of the following officers: a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, and a Secretary, as well as the Chairperson of each Standing Committee of the Board and two (2) At Large student members elected by vote of the Board. The Standing Committees of the Board will be: ­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­ Programming/Campus Life; College and Community Relations/Marketing; Resource Development; Facilities; and Nominating/Board Development.
Section 2 – General Responsibilities
The Executive Committee will guide the members of the Advisory Board. The Executive Committee will set the dates of the annual meetings. The Executive Committee will, when necessary, in intervals between meetings of the Advisory Board exercise the powers of the Advisory Board.
Section 3 – Duties and Responsibilities of the Chairperson


The Chairperson will be the chief volunteer officer of the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center Advisory Board. He or she will have general charge of the affairs of the Advisory Board and serve as the Chairperson of the Executive Committee.
The Chairperson will be an ex-officio member of all committees of the Advisory Board with voice but not vote on all matters before such committees.
The Chairperson will be in regular, continual contact with both the staff working with the Muhlenberg College Multicultural Center and with the officers of the student boards affiliated with the Center. The Chairperson will visit campus between board meetings, maintain a professional working relationship with all related members of the administration of Muhlenberg College and be able to represent the interests of the Center to the administration.
The Chairperson will represent the organization at alumni, parent and community meetings as necessary.

Section 4 – Duties and Responsibilities of the Vice Chairperson


The Vice Chairperson will be the primary contact for and the coordinator of all Committee Chairpersons.
The Vice Chairperson will appoint all Committee Chairpersons with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee.
The Vice Chairperson will be an ex-officio member of all committees with both voice and vote.
The Vice Chairperson will act for the Chairperson in his or her absence.

Section 5 – Duties and Responsibilities of the Secretary


The Secretary will maintain a record of all actions of the Advisory Board and of the Executive Committee.
The Secretary will record full and accurate minutes of each Board and Executive Committee meeting.
The Secretary will distribute minutes of the Board and Executive Committee meeting within 21 days of each meeting to all members of such bodies.
The Secretary will maintain up-to-date bylaws and work to insure that the Board and Executive Committee act in accordance with the bylaws.
As necessary, the Secretary may be responsible for some correspondence on behalf of the Board.

ARTICLE V
COMMITTEES
Section 1 – General Responsibilities
Each board member, other than the Officers, will serve on a Standing Committee of the Advisory Board.
Committee Chairpeople will be selected and appointed by the Vice Chairperson of the Advisory Board with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee. Committees should confer via email or conference call on at least a monthly basis and report to the full board at each regular board meeting.
The Chairperson of each Standing Committee will serve as a member of the Executive Committee of the Board and be responsible to report regularly to the Vice Chairperson of the Advisory Board.
Section 2 – Programming/Campus Life Committee


ensures that programming is diverse, pluralistic, effective and reaches the maximum number of students on campus through an engagement/empowerment strategy
participates in appropriate student activities and develops strategies for interaction between students, the Director of Multicultural Life, members of the campus and the board
ensures that board members receive program information
works with the Director of Multicultural Life to ensure leadership development of students through mentoring, education, and personal contacts
maintains a relationship with appropriate staff of the College and other programming bodies on campus

Section 3 – College and Community Relations/Marketing Committee



enhances the Center’s standing in the community by speaking at events and hosting receptions on the Center’s behalf


represents the Center in the College community and to key departments and offices of the College


ensures that Center events and organizational developments are covered in the press


ensures that the Center is visible in the community and on campus


works with the Director of Multicultural Life to develop various marketing materials for use in areas such as fundraising and recruitment of diverse students, faculty and staff


maintains a working relationship with the staff of Public Relations at the College


Section 4 – Resource Development Committee


determines annual fundraising goal and establishes a development plan in cooperation with the College’s Development office
works with the College Development office to identify and cultivate prospective donors through personal meetings and hosting of events
ensures 100% campaign participation by board members
coordinates activities with College Development office
recommends prospective donors and assists with follow-up
maintains a working relationship with the staff of the Development office of Muhlenberg College

Section 5 – Facilities Committee



monitors the condition, maintenance and use of the building


plans for the future needs of the facility


sets policies for internal and external use of the facility


ensures that the facility is in compliance with all city/state codes and regulations


maintains a working relationship with the staff of Campus Safety and Plant Operations at Muhlenberg College


Section 6 – Nominating/Board Development Committee
The Nominating/Board Development Committee will consist of one member from each of the representative constituencies of the Advisory Board: administration, alumni, community members, faculty, parents and students.
Nominating/Board Development Committee:



Develops written procedure for nomination and recruitment of new Board members


Identifies, cultivates and nominates new Board members


Ensures that Board includes sufficient representation from stakeholder constituencies


Provides orientation programs and resource materials for new Board members


Assesses overall Board performance and effectiveness of each Committee


Recommends new committees and suggests alternative Board structures and models


Ensures that the Center’s bylaws are updated and adhered to


Section 7 – Ad Hoc Committees
The Chairperson may create such other committees as the Chairperson may think advisable and delegate to them such powers and duties as the Chair shall think appropriate, except that enumerated powers specifically delegated to the Advisory Board, the Executive Committee or any Standing Committee may not be delegated to such ad hoc committees.
ARTICLE VI
AMENDMENTS TO THE BYLAWS
Revisions and amendments to these bylaws may be made by a two-thirds vote of the Advisory Board. Copies of the proposed amendment shall be sent to each board member along with the notice of the meeting at least fifteen (15) days prior thereto. If an action under a proposed amendment would be greater in scope than the proposed amendment of which the Board received notice, it may not be acted upon at such a meeting, and a new meeting must be called for this purpose. An affirmative vote of two-thirds of the board members present and voting shall be necessary to adopt any amendment or modification to these bylaws.



MULTICULTURAL CENTER CURRICULUM
President’s Charge: “6. A plan for working with Provost and faculty on the possibility of offering courses within the Center (if the property contains appropriate facilities)” 11/15/05
A description of the plan on the possibility of offering courses within the Center is included below. This plan includes necessary informal conversations and formal proposals for various constituents such as, Faculty Center for Teaching, Writing Committee, Faculty Development and Scholarship Committee, and Curriculum Committee, and would involve more detailed conversations and arrangements with specific academic departments and programs like Education, Religion, International Studies, American Studies, Sociology and Anthropology, Theatre and Dance, Political Science, just name a few. Individual faculty members have also expressed an interest in either utilizing the Center’s space for specific classes or housing existing courses within the Center.
1. Nexus for re-envisioning the “D” perspective.
a. Provide support and facilitate discussions among faculty teaching D courses that would increase curricula cohesion within perspective
§ Convening conversation/forum prior to semester/year
§ Offer opportunities and venue for teaching workshops and exchange for through Faculty Center for Teaching.
b. Working with the Office of the Provost and Deb Kip (Development) to develop a follow-up grant from the Mellon Foundation to better integrate the “D” perspective into the curriculum.
c. Faculty Center for Teaching and Center for Ethics grants; grant applications must demonstrate use and pedagogical connection to mission of center.
§ Offering one-time grants to faculty for course development.
§ Professional development grants for faculty interested in affecting change in their course material and pedagogy.
2. Offering and housing courses that specifically address the mission of the center.
a. Working with Directors of various Interdisciplinary Programs and First-Year Seminars on integrating course materials and coordinating programming.
§ FYS: share resources and provide opportunities for student cooperation and interaction through planned assignments and activities.
§ Interdisciplinary programs: encourage and support partnership across programs and departments to create innovative cross-disciplinary courses.
b. Provide opportunities for the exploration of alternative course structures involving partnerships and coordination between individual departments in consultation with Curriculum Committee and the Provost.
§ Team-taught courses
§ Week-long extensions
§ Short-term study abroad
3. Nexus for service-learning courses and professional program within Education department.
a. Developing and facilitating communication and partnerships between Office for Community Services, Faculty, and Community Organizations.
b. Providing students who are preparing for student-teaching in Allentown schools opportunities to learn and understand more about the local community and the issues facing students in local schools.
4. Integrating and bridging co-curricular and curricular life.
a. First-Year Diversity Workshops
§ Planning and implementing programming for diversity segment of orientation with Dean of Academic Affairs, faculty, board members, students, Office of Multicultural Life.
b. International Programs and Study Abroad
§ Organizing information meetings for program representatives and students.
§ Provide a cohesive space for students interested in study abroad programs to interact and reflect on their experiences.
§ Provide resources to program for further development and expansion to include more student interest and participation in experiences outside of Western Europe and Australia.
§ Coordinate with faculty with international interest on specific events that would encourage and expand student interest and participation in study abroad programs.
c. Student Life Activities
§ Working with student activities council/residential life staff to produce campus-wide multicultural programming that is directly connected to specific courses and/or issues related to student life.



MULTICULTURAL CENTER
ASSESSMENT
President’s Charge: “8. A plan for assessing the success of the Center on an annual basis.” 11/15/05
Assessment:
The activities and programs of the Multicultural Center will be assessed on an ongoing and annual basis by the Advisory Board. The assessment will include, but not be limited to, the following:

Tracking programs, attendance at programs, and student/faculty reaction to programs in order to assess the success of Center programming.
Surveying multicultural students annually to invite feedback about Center events and programming, Center’s facilities, and Center’s integration of co-curricular, extra-curricular and curricular life.
Surveying selected faculty/staff members annually to seek feedback about Center events and programming, and facilities.
Soliciting perceptions and feedback from other college programming bodies about the integration of the Center with their programming agenda.
Surveying selected faculty and College administration to invite feedback regarding the extent to which the Center facilitates and assists in curriculum development, expansion, and revision.
At some points, not necessarily annually, the surveys of students and faculty/staff should also seek to obtain feedback about the Center’s contribution to a campus culture that is more understanding of and supportive of difference. The Center will need some time to work toward a campus culture that embraces and celebrates difference—and this may prove to be a journey that is ongoing and a destination never fully reached—but at some point there should be an attempt made to assess the Center’s impact on campus culture. Focus group work might aid in this assessment in addition to survey work.

It may well be that as the Center becomes established at Muhlenberg, other assessment techniques (or topics for assessment) will present themselves. The Advisory Board will be the body primarily charged with evaluating the Center’s progress and setting the parameters for additional assessment. The College administration will be the final voice in evaluation of Center personnel, programming success, etc.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















