






Discussion Guide | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveCampus Alcohol DiscussionStudy GuideDiscussion Guide 






Discussion Guide














Discussion Guide











Binge Drinking FAQDiscussion GuideHandouts for Students











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsPast InitiativesArchiveCampus Alcohol DiscussionStudy GuideDiscussion Guide 












Study GuideBinge Drinking: Causes and Consequences
Discussion Guide
Beyond giving information it would be important to provide some discussion questions for the students in your classes. Following are some suggestions that you can use verbatim or modify to fit your needs.
What is your reaction to the statistics  about binge drinking at Muhlenberg College? Do you talk with your friends at other colleges about this and are they experiencing similar situations on their campus? What is the flavor of your conversations with your friends about the amount of drinking at their school? How do you perceive that Muhlenberg is similar or different from your friends' school?
When confronted with the potential dangers of binge drinking , many students disregard the risks by reasoning that "I am different. This would never happen to me." In what ways is this attitude potentially dangerous? Ask students "Of the 26 students hospitalized for alcohol intoxication this semester, what percentage also believed that it would not happen to them?"
Why do you think a person chooses to drink to the point of intoxication, alcohol poisoning or even death?
One of the most common beliefs associated with binge-drinking  is that "drinking alcohol enhances social interactions (i.e., makes it easier to interact with people) or has positive effects(helps to relax, relieve stress or celebrate). Yet, the actual effects of heavy alcohol consumption are often quite different. Students who endorse these beliefs about the positive effects of alcohol are more likely to get into physical fights and engage in unplanned or unprotected sexual behavior. What implications does this have for preventing binge drinking? For identifying fellow students who are at-risk for serious problems?
How would you like others to respond to you when you are involved in dangerous drinking behavior? What, if any, is your responsibility  when another student is involved in dangerous drinking behavior? Why would you or would you not intervene? What information or event would cause you to examine or change your current drinking behavior?
Many students are able to drink responsibly and never "lose control." However, the negative consequences of binge drinking are not resticted to the binge drinker. The destructive behaviors of the binge drinker affect the wider community . In what ways are "responsible drinkers" and non-drinkers still vulnerable to the negative effects of binge drinking on campus? To what extent do you think that your fellow students see binge drinking as personally relevant?
Spring break  is coming up. What are you planning to do in order to reduce the risk of binge drinking yourself or being a victim of someone else's binge drinking?
Discussion pitfalls If a student tells a long personal story, you may want to generalize the experience to one that many may have had but "it is important for us to focus on how we can respond to these types of incidents in the future."
If one or more students want to bash the "authority" as in administration, police, the law etc, again you will want to acknowledge their concerns and refer to the forming of the task force but that "the discussion today is to focus on how we personally can and will respond to the problem."


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















