






Alumni Achievement Awards | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Alumni & FriendsDiscoverSignature EventsAlumni WeekendAn Evening of DistinctionAlumni Achievement Awards 






Alumni Achievement Awards














Alumni Achievement Awards











Reunion Volunteer DescriptionsAn Evening of Distinction











Home
Alumni & FriendsDiscoverSignature EventsAlumni WeekendAn Evening of DistinctionAlumni Achievement Awards 















Alumni Achievement Awards

Every day, more than 26,000 alums of Muhlenberg College significant contributions made in their fields of expertise while upholding the highest standards and values in everything they do. Since 1952, members of the Alumni Board, in partnership with the College, have recognized nearly 400 outstanding alumni with achievement awards. The individuals chosen connect their achievements back to alma mater and are a living testament to the value of a liberal arts education. In accepting the award, they understand that they join a distinguished group of alumni who serve as Muhlenberg advocates, donors and ambassadors.
Honorees are selected by a committee of their peers and members of the College administration. 

Award Categories
 
Alumni Achievement 
This award is given to an alum for distinguished and exceptional achievement in a specific field that can be specifically tied to the fact that Muhlenberg College is recipient's alma mater. 
 
Alumni Lifetime Achievement
This award is given to an alum for a collection of distinguished and exceptional life achievements that can be specifically tied to the fact that Muhlenberg College is the recipient's alma mater.
Young Alumni Achievement Award
This award is presented to an individual within 10 years of his/her graduation and recognizes the individual's extraordinary potential as exhibited by exceptional performance in their career or further education.

Nomination Requirements
A candidate is considered for an award when a letter of recommendation is received. Click here to submit a nomination via an online form. Alternatively, letters of nomination may be sent to the Alumni Affairs Office, Muhlenberg College, 2400 Chew Street, Allentown, PA 18104 or by email to alumnievents@muhlenberg.edu.
Nominations may be submitted by fellow alumni, family, friends, faculty, staff, students or co-workers. Letters should be as specific as possible when describing why the person is being nominated for an award and how he/she meets the award criteria. Supplemental documentation is also encouraged (i.e., curriculum vitae, newspaper articles, etc.).Nominations are accepted on a rolling basis. 

Award Selection Guidelines
Award recipients are selected by the Alumni Achievement Awards Committee of the Muhlenberg College Alumni Board, in partnership with the College. All awards are presented at the An Evening of Distinction event during Alumni Weekend. A maximum of eight awards are presented and the committee may choose to give more than one award in any category or choose to skip a category in a given year. Awards will not be presented in absentia. However, if circumstances require, at the approval of the selecting body, an award can be accepted by a family member or friend at the awards presentation. If logistics allow, the award will be delivered to the recipient by a college representative and an awards committee member at a later date.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















