






Anti-Hazing Policy | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeDean Of StudentsSummary of OfficesJudicial AffairsAnti-Hazing Policy 






Anti-Hazing Policy














Anti-Hazing Policy











Student Code of Conduct Identity-based and sexual misconduct Student Policy and Resource GuideAnti-Hazing Policy











Home
Student LifeDean Of StudentsSummary of OfficesJudicial AffairsAnti-Hazing Policy 











MUHLENBERG COLLEGE ANTI-HAZING POLICY

At Muhlenberg College, there is nothing more important than the health and well-being of our students.  We believe deeply in the value of human dignity and seek to create a learning and living environment that affirms this belief.  As such, we commit to ensuring that students are informed about the definitions and harmful consequences associated with hazing and know how to take an active role in preventing it from happening within their social settings and on our campus.
Recently, the state of Pennsylvania has also increased its commitment to addressing this important topic.  The Timothy J. Piazza Antihazing Law addresses prevention, enforcement, and transparency surrounding hazing activities on college campuses. This law applies to student organizations of all types, including fraternities and sororities, athletic teams and student clubs and performing arts groups. 
Below you will find information related to the recently enacted Pennsylvania state law and Muhlenberg College's Anti-Hazing Policy. In addition, a five-year history of hazing allegations and findings at Muhlenberg College are cataloged.  If you have any questions about any of these cases or other potential hazing allegations at the College, please contact the Department of Campus Safety or the Dean of Students Office at any time.
Finally, if you are aware of an instance of hazing on our campus, please click here to report this information right away.  If it is an emergency, please contact Campus Safety at 484-664-3110.  Please note that preventing hazing is a community responsibility.  We are limited in our response to a situation by the information reported to us.  Therefore, please make every effort to provide as much information as possible, including your contact information so that we may follow up with you about your concerns as needed. 
Thank you,Allison WilliamsVice President for Campus Life and Dean of Students


Timothy J. Piazza Antihazing Law
Muhlenberg College Anti-Hazing Policy
5-Year Institutional Report
Report an Incident 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















