






2005: Exploratory Cinema Series To Be Held At Muhlenberg College  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Exploratory Cinema Series To Be Held At Muhlenberg College 



The Department of Communication at Muhlenberg College will host Exploratory Cinema, a four part series on independent film. All events are free and open to the public.


	 Thursday, January 27, 2005  10:27 AM

The Department of Communication at Muhlenberg College will host Exploratory Cinema, a four part series on independent film. All events are free and open to the public.
The series kicks off with a discussion with director Maggie Greenwald and composer David Mansfield on Wednesday, February 2, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall, Center for the Arts. Greenwald and Mansfield will talk about their work, including their feature films “The Ballad of Little Joe” and “Songcatcher,” both of which feature courageous women in challenging and unconventional roles.
The second event in the series will be a screening of selected works from The Black Maria Film/Video Festival, hosted by Festival Director John Columbus, on February 23, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall, Center for the Arts. This annual film festival’s mission is to advocate, exhibit and reward cutting-edge works from indie film and videomakers.
A screening of the movie The Sixth Section and discussion with filmmaker Alex Rivera will be held on March 23, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. in the Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. The Sixth Section is a groundbreaking documentary that blends digital animation, home video, cinema verite and interview footage to showcase a community of Mexican immigrants in New York.
The series will close with a discussion with film and videomakers Gary Adlestein and Jerry Orr, and a screening of their work on April 13, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall, Center for the Arts. Adlestein and Orr have been making personal/experimental films and, more recently, videos since the 1960s. Their work has been seen at various festivals, on PBS and in the Museum for Modern Art.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















