






2005: Muhlenberg College Presents  The Pirates Of Penzance | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Muhlenberg College Presents  The Pirates Of Penzance

	 Wednesday, February 9, 2005  09:59 AM

The glory of the English operettas penned by W.S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan returns to the Muhlenberg stage this month when The Muhlenberg Theatre Association presents THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE. This swashbuckling comic opera with its tongue twisting songs and glorious orchestrations is as grand and entertaining as it was a century ago. Set in Cornwall at the turn of the century with a troupe of orphaned pirates, a hopelessly duty-bound hero, a pompous Major-General and a bevy of unmarried daughters, The Pirates of Penzance is possibly the most enchanting and certainly the most popular in the topsy-turvy world of the G&S operettas. The brilliance of Gilbert's rhyming lyrics and Sullivan's musical score wrapped around theatrical plots and characters is frequently credited for setting the stage for the future of musical comedy on the American stage.The Muhlenberg Theatre Association last presented Pirates in 1979. The Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre produced Pirates most recently in 1993. Amazingly, the Muhlenberg faculty artists responsible for the success of those productions are preparing to work their magic again: Charles Richter, director; Curtis Dretsch, scenic designer; and Jeremy Slavin, musical director.Pirates will be performed February 18-19 and 22-26 at 8 p.m. and February 20 and 27 at 2 p.m. All performances will be held in the Dorothy Hess Baker Theatre, Trexler Pavillion.For ticket reservations, call the box office at 484-664-3333, Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tickets must be purchased at time of reservation. You may also request tickets by visiting www.muhlenberg.edu/cultural/baker and going to the calendar.SYNOPSIS. Frederic, our hero, was apprenticed as a child to a band of pirates by his nurse who, being hard of hearing, had mistaken her master's instructions to apprentice the boy to a pilot. Frederic, upon completing his 21st year, rejoices that he has fulfilled his indentures and is now free to return to respectable society. In spite of the pirate band's kindness, Frederic vows to return to civilization and enlist the police to aid in capturing the band of pirates. As Frederic sets off on his own, he encounters some 20 young women, climbing over the rocks. The pirates are soon on the scene as well — all interested in marrying one of these respectable young ladies. In fact, these buccaneers are a tender-hearted troupe of orphans who make a point of never attacking a weaker party, consequently getting thrashed with regularity. When Major-General Stanley appears to save his daughters from the pirates, he wins their sympathy by simply claiming (untruthfully) to be an orphan, himself.While the pirates scheme to marry the Major-General's beautiful daughters, young Frederick tries valiantly to untangle the mysterious affairs of life, love and duty. Released from the Pirates and determined to marry one of the General's daughters, Frederick is mortified to learn that he was born on February 29th in leap year, and thus he remains apprenticed to the pirates until his actual 21st "birthday." The wildly ironic and fabulously funny chase that ensues has kept audiences laughing for more than a century! GILBERT & SULLIVAN. During the reign of Queen Victoria, W.S. Gilbert, a clever playwright and poet, and Arthur Sullivan, the most respected English composer of the time, were brought together for the purpose of creating popular music theater. Their collaboration resulted in comic operas with such brilliant lyrics and masterful orchestrations, that they are still being performed throughout the world today. Gilbert began writing with a caustic wit in 1861, contributing dramatic criticism and humorous verse (unsigned) to the popular British magazine FUN. Some of his work was accompanied by cartoons and sketches of characters, signed with his childhood nickname, "Bab." A collection of these Bab Ballads was later published in 1869. Sullivan was a professor of music, a teacher, and an organist. Regarded as the leading composer of the day, Sullivan had many influential friends in every circle of society including many monarchs in Europe. In addition to composing "Onward Christian Soldiers," Sullivan also composed several major choral works, including The Light of the World, The Martyr of Antioch, The Golden Legend, and his lone grand opera, Ivanhoe. In the period from 1871 to 1896, Sullivan collaborated with W. S. Gilbert on fourteen comic operas. Their 25-year partnership with Richard D'Oyly Carte produced thirteen additional comic operas of which the last, The Grand Duke, premiered in 1896. In addition to The Pirates of Penzance, Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre productions of these also include H.M.S. Pinafore, Iolanthe, The Mikado, Ruddigore and Yeoman of the Guard. Production Team:Director-Charles Richter; Musical Director-Jeremy Slavin; Orchestrations & Conductor-Vincent Trovato; Scenic Designer-Curtis Dretsch; Costume Designer-Michael McDonald ; Lighting Designer-Jason Conrad; Choreographer-Lisa Marten; Stage Manager- Marc Rogol.BOX OFFICE INFORMATION Call 484-664-3333, Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. for ticket reservations. Tickets must be purchased at time of reservation. You may also request tickets by visiting www.muhlenberg.edu/cultural/baker and going to the calendar. For more information about the theatre program at Muhlenberg College, visit our website at www.muhlenberg.edu/depts/theatre.ReleasedFebruary 9, 2005 For more information, contactMarilyn Roberts 484-664-3693roberts@muhlenberg.edu 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















