






2005: Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre Announces New Season, Audition Dates  | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre Announces New Season, Audition Dates 

	 Thursday, February 17, 2005  09:54 AM

The Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre Festival, now entering its 25th award-winning season, has set the dates for preliminary performance auditions for the 2005 season. The opening musical will be George M! with a book by Francine Pascal, John Pascal, Michael Stewart; and music and lyrics by George M. Cohan. The second musical will be Candide, with a book by Lillian Hellman; lyrics by Dorothy Parker, John La Touche, Richard Wilbur and music by Leonard Bernstein. The final musical will be My Way: A Musical Tribute to Frank Sinatra, conceived by David Grapes and Todd Olson.To audition, youmustschedule an audition time in advance with the Muhlenberg Theatre & Dance Office at 484-664-3335 or grobman@muhlenberg.edu before February 25, 2005. Applications are also now available for set, costume, lighting, box office and administrative staffs for the summer. High school students over the age of 16 are encouraged to apply for high school internships, which may include campus housing. Details are on the Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre web site at www.summerbroadway.org/opportunities.htm. Early subscriptions are available by mail only, and information is available at www.summerbroadway.org/tickets.htm or by calling 484-664-3333.THE AUDITIONS: February 27-28Prliminary vocal and dance auditions will be held Sunday, February 27, from 2:00 – 11:00 p.m. and on Monday, February 28 from 7:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. in the Empie Theatre of the Baker Center for the Arts, on the Muhlenberg College campus. There will be two parts to the preliminary audition: a solo vocal audition and a group dance audition. Everyone who attends the vocal audition will also be required to attend the dance audition prior to his or her vocal audition.For the vocal audition , please prepare no more than 32 bars of one memorized song from a Broadway musical written before 1980. Operetta selections are appropriate for this audition. The musical directors request that you not sing from the George M! or Candide scores. You must bring sheet music in the key in which you would like to sing; please, no accompaniment tapes. An accompanist will be provided for the vocal audition; please CLEARLY mark any cuts in your music. George M! requires strong tap dancers and strong singers in all vocal ranges. There are ten principal speaking roles and twenty chorus roles for ten men and ten women. Candide calls for strong singing and dancing as well as featured character roles, including Candide, The Old Lady, Maximilian, Dr. Pangloss, and Cunegonde. My Way: A Musical Tribute to Frank Sinatra requires two men and two women with appropriate vocal skills and strong dance skills. The two available roles are Man #1, a rich deep baritone who can sing the Sinatra standards without any hint of direct imitation; and Woman #1, dark, attractive mezzo soprano with a wide vocal range.When you call or email to schedule an audition time in advance, you will be told when to report for your vocal audition and when to report for your dance audition. If you leave a message, be sure to mention a daytime phone number where we can leave a recorded message. For more detailed information about the summer theatre program, visit www.summerbroadway.org.For More Information contact:Marilyn Roberts 484-664-3693












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















