






2005: Landau Delivers Wallenberg Lecture;  Tribute To Honor Mishkin  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Landau Delivers Wallenberg Lecture;  Tribute To Honor Mishkin 



The Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding (IJCU) of Muhlenberg College cordially invites the public to the annual Wallenberg Tribute Lecture, delivered by Yehezkel Landau, Sunday, March 13, 3:30 p.m., in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. The lecture is free and open to the public.


	 Tuesday, March 1, 2005  09:42 AM

The Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding (IJCU) of Muhlenberg College cordially invites the public to the annual Wallenberg Tribute Lecture, delivered by Yehezkel Landau, Sunday, March 13, 3:30 p.m., in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. The lecture is free and open to the public.Landau, a dual Israeli-American citizen, specializes in the fields of interfaith education and Jewish-Arab peacemaking.  He directed the OZ religious Zionist peace movement in Israel during the 1980's. From 1991 to 2003, he was co-founder and co-director of the Center for Jewish-Arab Coexistence in Ramle, Israel.  Currently, he lectures internationally on Jewish-Christian-Muslim relations and Middle East peace issues. Furthermore, Landau has authored numerous journal articles, co-edited a book, and authored a research report. Prior to his immigration to Israel in 1978, Landau earned an A.B. from Harvard University (1971) and an M.T.S. from Harvard Divinity School (1976). On the evening of March 13, the IJCU will honor prominent Jewish leader and philanthropist Alvin Mishkin at its annual Wallenberg Tribute, at a 4:30 p.m. reception and 5:30 p.m. dinner in Congregation Keneseth Israel, 23 rd and Chew Streets. Three Muhlenberg students, Diana Robillard ’05, Melissa Kenig ’05 and Tara Trudnak 05, will be presented with the Jeanette Eichenwald Interfaith Award. Named for the long-time educator, community leader and Holocaust speaker, the award honors students who demonstrate dedication to the work of interfaith understanding and prejudice reduction. Reservations for the Wallenberg reception and dinner can be made by contacting the Institute at 484-664-3470.The Wallenberg Tribute acknowledges and honors Mishkin, a native of Allentown who works closely with the Jewish Federation of the Lehigh Valley and the IJCU to plan interfaith, college-based study trips for students. Named the March of Remembrance and Hope, his initiative has sent two delegations of Lehigh Valley college students on a trip to Poland and Israel in 2001 and 2003.  In addition, Mishkin has received numerous awards from the local Jewish community and has honorary membership on the boards of the Jewish Community Center, the Jewish Federation, Jewish Family Service and Temple Beth El. The Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding seeks to build an understanding of both the common roots and the diverse expressions of Judaism and Christianity, creating connections between Jews and Christians. For more information about the Wallenberg Tribute and other IJCU programs, contact the Institute at 484-664-3470 or visit www.ijcu.org.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















