






2005: Muhlenberg Students Take Alternative Spring Break Trips | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Muhlenberg Students Take Alternative Spring Break Trips



While many students plan trips to warm and exotic locations for Spring Break, three groups at Muhlenberg College will spend the March recess period on trips focused on community service and outreach. 


	 Tuesday, March 8, 2005  10:47 AM

While many students plan trips to warm and exotic locations for Spring Break, three groups at Muhlenberg College will spend the March recess period on trips focused on community service and outreach. These three plans for an alternative Spring Break include a mission trip to Juarez, Mexico, an AIDS awareness trip to New York City, as well as a trip to Harrisburg, Pa., planned in conjunction with Habitat for Humanity.
The trip to Juarez, Mexico, led by Muhlenberg student Lauren Reifsnyder ’05, is sponsored through Touch the World Ministries. Students who participate will help to construct a school on a former garbage dumpsite. Reifsnyder, along with members of Muhlenberg’s student-led Christian group SEVEN, will leave in early March to spend a week with this small community of approximately 100 families. In addition to aiding in construction, the group will also spend time interacting with the children for whom they are building the school.
The College’s Office of Religious Life will take 11 students to New York City from March 6-10, to serve with different agencies within New York City including AIDS Housing Network, Lifebeat and Bailey House. This trip, led by Christine Davies ’05, is designed to give students a first-hand experience of the magnitude of the AIDS epidemic and to showcase what is being done for support and prevention by non- profit organizations.
The third trip, scheduled for March 8 - 12, led by Alyssa M. Rabenold ’02, Assistant Director of Admission, involves eight Muhlenberg students who will spend their time in Harrisburg, PA helping build homes through Habitat for Humanity. The group initiated all fundraising efforts and received donations from the college’s Women’s Auxiliary and from student-musician Ryan Kavalsky ’05, who donated proceeds from his recent CD sales. While in Harrisburg the group will stay at a local Church Community Center.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















