






2005:  Muhlenberg College Announces Honorary Degree Recipients | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











 Muhlenberg College Announces Honorary Degree Recipients



Muhlenberg College will award honorary doctoral degrees to William Cronon, the late Jonathan C. Messerli and Gladys Mouro at its 157 th Commencement ceremony, Sunday, May 22, at 10 a.m. on the College Green. 


	 Tuesday, March 22, 2005  09:42 AM

Muhlenberg College will award honorary doctoral degrees to William Cronon, the late Jonathan C. Messerli and Gladys Mouro at its 157 th Commencement ceremony, Sunday, May 22, at 10 a.m. on the College Green. 
William Cronon will be an honorary doctorate of humane letters. An accomplished author, Cronon has published research that seeks to understand the history of human interactions with the natural world. He was awarded the Francis Parkman Prize of the Society of American Historians in 1994, the Chicago Tribune's Heartland Prize for the best literary work of non-fiction published in 1991, the Bancroft Prize for the best work of American history published in 1991, the Charles A. Weyerhaeuser Award from the Forest History Society in 1991-1992 and the George Perkins Marsh Prize from the American Society for Environmental History in 1993.
In July 1992, Cronon became the Frederick Jackson Turner Professor of History, Geography, and Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison after having served for more than a decade as a member of the Yale History Department.
Cronon received a B.A. from the University of Wisconsin and holds an M.A., M.Phil., and Ph.D. from Yale, and a D.Phil. from Oxford University. Cronon has been a Rhodes Scholar, Danforth Fellow, Guggenheim Fellow and MacArthur Fellow; he has won prizes for his teaching at both Yale and Wisconsin, and in 1999 was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society. He currently serves on the Governing Council of The Wilderness Society and on the National Board of the Trust for Public Land.
Former Muhlenberg College President Dr. Jonathan C. Messerli , who passed away earlier this year, will also receive an honorary doctorate in humane letters, which will be accepted by one of his children. A respected educator, artisan and scholar, was widely known as a positive leader in American higher education. Messerli’s academic career included professorships at the University of Washington and the Teachers College at Columbia University and as dean of education at Hofstra and Fordham Universities. His first college presidency was at Susquehanna University in 1977, followed by a second college presidency at Muhlenberg College from 1984 to 1992.
Messerli’s accomplishments as president of Muhlenberg are noteworthy, as he initiated long-range strategic planning, comprehensive marketing and intensified student recruitment, long before these practices were widely embraced in higher education. He also was renowned for his development of Trexler Library, the renovation of three of the College’s oldest buildings and the successful completion of Muhlenberg’s first $1 million annual fund campaign.
A graduate of Concordia Teachers College in 1947, Messerli went on to achieve a master of arts from Washington University in 1952 and a Ph.D. in the history of American education from Harvard University in 1963. Dr. Messerli served on the boards of Bethphage Mission in Nebraska, the Special Olympics in Pennsylvania and was on the founding board of Lehigh Valley Ambassador Bank. At the time of his death, he was a member of the boards of the Lehigh Valley Historical Society and the Lutheran Theological Seminary of Philadelphia.
Skilled nurse and authority figure Gladys Mouro will also receive an honorary doctorate in humane letters. She is currently an Assistant Hospital Director for Nursing Services at the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) in Lebanon where she is r esponsible for the delivery of patient care. In addition to her extensive nursing experience at the Beirut Medical Center where she is also the Di rector of the Practical Nursing Training Program, Mouro is a registered nurse at the Hospital of Pennsylvania.
A respected authority in the nursing field, Mouro has also extended her realm of influence into the classroom, and was a teacher of English as a second language to nurses at her alma-matter, the American University of Beirut in 1988. For her dedication to nursing, Mouro was awarded the American Organization for Nurse Executive’s Organizational Innovation Nursing award in 2003 and the Alumni Leadership Award at the University of Pennsylvania in 2001.
Mouro, a graduate of B.S.N., School of Nursing at the American University of Beirut, Lebanon went on to earn a degree from the M.S.N., School of Nursing at the University of Pennsylvania in 1983. She is currently a member of the American Organization of Nurse Executives, Lebanese Health Care Management Association and Sigma Theta Tau International Honor society of nursing.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















