






2005: Author And Holocaust Survivor To Speak At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Author And Holocaust Survivor To Speak At Muhlenberg College



The Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding of Muhlenberg College welcomes author and holocaust survivor Irving Roth for a lecture on Monday, April 18, 2005 from 4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. in rooms 109 and 110 of Seegers Union. The lecture is free and open to the public.


	 Tuesday, April 12, 2005  09:59 AM

The Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding of Muhlenberg College welcomes author and holocaust survivor Irving Roth for a lecture on Monday, April 18, 2005 from 4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. in rooms 109 and 110 of Seegers Union. The lecture is free and open to the public.
Roth is a survivor of Auschwitz who has transformed his experience into a compelling narrative about realistic hope in a world of trouble.  His memoir about losing his brother to an unknown fate offers “the artistry of terse prose, etched images, and richly woven threads of character and story.  The atrocities are sketched subtly, but without flinching.  Nobility and courage appear too infrequently, but are never absent – least of all from the narrator” (from the Preface).
Born in Kosice, Czechoslovakia, on September 2, 1929, Roth arrived in New York Harbor in 1947 via Auschwitz and Buchenwald. His recollection of the Nazi death camps remain vivid, and he dedicates his time and efforts to teaching others about the Holocaust and anti-Semitism. Currently, Roth is Director and an original member of the well-known Holocaust Resource Center at Temple Judea of Manhasset, N.Y., and is the former education director of the Holocaust Memorial and Education Center of Nassau County.
Copies of Roth’s book will be available for purchase at the lecture.
Muhlenberg College has established the Institute for Jewish-Christian Understanding as an expression of its commitment to interfaith relations.  The Institute uses the resources of the academic community to foster such research and dialogue and to build bridges of understanding between the faith traditions.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















