






2005: Dan Schiller To Speak At Final Center For Ethics Event At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Dan Schiller To Speak At Final Center For Ethics Event At Muhlenberg College



Dan Schiller, a professor at the Institute of Communications Research and the Graduate School of Library and Information Science at the University of Illinois, Urbana- Champaign will present the final lecture in the series Ethics in the Information Age.


	 Wednesday, April 13, 2005  09:57 AM

Dan Schiller, a professor at the Institute of Communications Research and the Graduate School of Library and Information Science at the University of Illinois, Urbana- Champaign will present the final lecture in the series Ethics in the Information Age, entitled “Informationalized Capitalism: History and Prospect” at Muhlenberg College on Monday April 25, 2005. This event is free and open to the public.
Schiller, a leading historian of communication, is the author of several influential books, including Digital Capitalism: Networking the Global Market System, Theorizing Communication: A Historical Reckoning and Continental Order? Integrating North America for Cyber-Capitalism. His interests center on telecommunications history and on the role of cultural production in the socio-economic development of the market system.
Schiller’s presentation will focus on the how and why of information as it emerged as a commodity. His talk will include societal interests and changes in network infrastructures, legal and policy strictures and global political-economic relations that commodification has evoked. Schiller looks to answer the question: in the aftermath of the high-tech/Internet bubble, has information commodification become a dead letter?
Ethics in the Information Age is a semester-long series sponsored by the College’s Center for Ethics. For more information on the Center, please visit www.muhlenberg.edu/cultural/ethics.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















