






2005: Muhlenberg College Announces New Science Building; Union Renovations | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Muhlenberg College Announces New Science Building; Union Renovations



The Muhlenberg College Board of Trustees approved a $24 millionLink to the Science Building/Union Renovation Site plan for a new science building and major renovations to Seegers Union. Ground was broken on this project on April 22, as part of the Board of Trustees Meeting. 


	 Friday, April 22, 2005  09:50 AM

The Muhlenberg College Board of Trustees approved a $24 million plan for a new science building and major renovations to Seegers Union. Ground was broken on this project on April 22, as part of the Board of Trustees Meeting. 
The College has selected Ballinger, a Philadelphia architectural and engineering firm, to implement these changes. A 40,000 square-foot science center will be created by Ballinger, while the firm will add 11,000 square feet of new space and renovate current space in Seegers Union.  This expansion will include conference and meeting rooms, space for academic support services, and renovated space for student organizations.
In addition, renovations will be executed to current laboratory space, classrooms and offices in Shankweiler Biology Building and Trumbower Hall, which houses chemistry, physics and mathematics.
The expansion of Seegers Union is slated for completion in January 2006, and the new science building is slated for completion in August 2006. Renovations to the existing Shankweiler and Trumbower facilities will be complete in January 2007.
This is one of the key initiatives of the College’s Strategic Plan, which was approved by the Board of Trustees in October 2004.
“Our science program has always been the flagship of Muhlenberg College,” says President Peyton R. Helm. “The new and expanded facility should bring synergy and a more inter-disciplinary approach to the sciences. We have an excellent faculty and this will give them a place to continue to do top-notch research, and allow our students to get additional research experiences.” 
Muhlenberg continues to be among the national leaders in terms of sending students to medical, dental, veterinary and other health professional schools.
According to Helm, “Ballinger stood out from other firms because of its experience and expertise in designing outstanding, instructional science facilities.”
Ballinger was founded in 1878 and has a staff of more than 200 professionals.
Ballinger works with colleges and universities nationally on the planning and design of science teaching and research facilities. The firm has won recent awards for science buildings at Brown University, Cornell University and Rowan University. Other recent award-winning projects include the Bloomberg Financial Building in Princeton, N.J., and the GlaxoSmithKline headquarters in Center City Philadelphia.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg College is a highly selective, private, liberal arts college in Allentown, Pa.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















