






2005:  Muhlenberg College Receives Higher Education Web Site Recognition Award | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











 Muhlenberg College Receives Higher Education Web Site Recognition Award



WebsiteASP, Inc. today announced that Muhlenberg College has received their Higher Education Web Site Recognition Award (HEWRA). WebsiteASP launched its Higher Education Web Site Recognition Program in February 2005 and past recognition award winners include: Dartmouth College, Mills College and Pepperdine University among others.


	 Thursday, May 26, 2005  11:26 AM

WebsiteASP, Inc. today announced that Muhlenberg College has received their Higher Education Web Site Recognition Award (HEWRA). WebsiteASP launched its Higher Education Web Site Recognition Program in February 2005 and past recognition award winners include: Dartmouth College, Mills College and Pepperdine University among others.
"The web site is a tremendous marketing tool for us, allowing us to reach prospective students, current students, faculty, staff, alumni and others who have an interest in our institution.  Having timely, accurate information and having easy navigation is critical and we are always looking for ways to improve our site.  We are pleased to receive this honor and we share it with so many individuals at the College who maintain various pages." said Michael Bruckner, Vice President for Public Relations at Muhlenberg College.
The Higher Education Web Site Recognition Program was designed to recognize the efforts put forth to maintain the overwhelming amount of content on college and university web sites and the importance of the information they disseminate.
“As specialists in this field, we understand that maintaining the overwhelming quantity of educational web content to the level of excellence expected by the stakeholders of the college is an unimaginably challenging task – and one that deserves special recognition,” said WebsiteASP, Inc. President and CEO Lance Merker.
According to Bruckner, the Muhlenberg web site is a joint venture between the Office of Information Technology (OIT) and the Public Relations Office (PRO).  The PRO is responsible for graphics, content and messaging while OIT is responsible for the technical and navigational updates.  There are a number of departmental webmasters throughout Muhlenberg College who are tasked with basic information updates, but major changes are a product of the combined efforts of the PRO and OIT.
“These efforts put forth by web content managers at colleges and universities are heroic in proportion to all other web sites,” said Merker. “We feel that recognition of this feat is long overdue.”












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















