






2005: Institute Brings University And College Presidents To Israel  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Institute Brings University And College Presidents To Israel 



Muhlenberg College President Peyton R. Helm will be among several university and college presidents attending the first in a series of Israel Institutes sponsored by The United Jewish Communities (UJC) and the Jewish Council for Public Affairs (JCPA).


	 Thursday, July 7, 2005  01:59 PM

The Institute will host seven university and college presidents along with one provost in Israel July 11-18. The participants (listed below) will meet with senior Israeli government officials, U.S. diplomats, as well as Palestinian leaders. They will also visit with their counterparts at Israeli universities in Jerusalem, Haifa and Tel Aviv.
Helm was nominated by the Jewish Federation of the Lehigh Valley. Muhlenberg College trustee and local businessman Joseph Scheller will also take part in the Institute program. The local federations nominated the Institute’s participants, and will also send community representatives on the trip that comes only weeks before Israel is to begin its disengagement from Gaza and the northern West Bank.
“Participants in this Institute will gain a more complete understanding of the complex challenges facing Israel today,” said JCPA Chair, Marie Abrams who will be leading the trip.
“At this critical time for the future of Israel and efforts to advance prospects for peace, we are especially excited to bring key higher education leaders to meet with Israeli decision-makers, university presidents and ordinary citizens,” Abrams added.
This is the first of three planned Israel Institute trips made possible by UJC’s Israel Emergency Campaign and funding from local Jewish communities.  Later this year the JCPA and UJC will host Protestant leaders and leaders from the American Hispanic community on separate institutes. 
“These innovative trips to Israel provide the participants with a unique experience that we trust will result in greater understanding for the situation Israelis face and will also stimulate ongoing relationships with their counterparts in Israel,” said Dr. Conrad Giles, who, together with Michael Bohnen, serves as Co-Chair of the UJC/JCPA Israel Institutes program.
Institute participants: President Dawood Farahi, Kean (NJ) University; President Rosanne Runte, Old Dominion (VA) University; President Jon Larson, Ocean County (NJ) College; President Jonathan M. Daube, Manchester (CT) Community College; President Peyton R. Helm, Muhlenberg (PA) College; President Jay McGowan, Bellarmine (KY) University; Provost Robert Gross, Swarthmore (PA) College; and President Jackie Jenkins-Scott, Wheelock (MA) College.
JCPA is the public affairs arm of the organized Jewish community that serves as the national coordinating and advisory body for the 13 national and 123 local agencies comprising the field of Jewish community relations. 
 United Jewish Communities (UJC) represents 155 Jewish Federations and 400 independent communities across North America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















