






2005: CDC Director Dr. Julie Gerberding To Speak At Raker Lecture At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











CDC Director Dr. Julie Gerberding To Speak At Raker Lecture At Muhlenberg College



Julie Louise Gerberding, M.D., M.P.H., director of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), will speak at Muhlenberg College on September 20, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. 


	 Monday, August 15, 2005  01:59 PM

The lecture is in Egner Memorial Chapel and is a part of the Conrad W. Raker Lecture Series, co-sponsored by the College and Good Shepherd Rehabilitation Network. A reception in Moyer Hall will follow the lecture.
Dr. Gerberding’s presentation, Protecting Health in the 21 st Century, will cover the growing list of new and emerging threats to Americans’ health. The CDC is addressing these threats, including bio-terrorism, pandemic influenza and obesity, by transforming itself into the nation’s leading health protection agency. She will also share recent innovations and interventions at the CDC for reducing the wide array of unintentional injuries that compromise the physical and emotional health of millions of Americans.
Dr. Gerberding earned her B.A. in chemistry and biology, as well as her M.D. from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio and a M.P.H. from the University of California, Berkeley. She has been head of both the CDC and the ATSDR since July 2002.
Recently, Dr. Gerberding has been quoted in the national media discussing the potential link between children’s vaccinations and autism.
The Conrad W. Raker Lecture Series was established by the Board of Trustees at Good Shepherd in honor of the anniversary of the ordination of Reverend Dr. Conrad W. Raker, son of the founder of Good Shepherd, as a Lutheran pastor. Raker, a Muhlenberg alumnus, was an administrator at Good Shepherd until 1980. He served as administrator emeritus and was an active member in the Good Shepherd family until shortly before his death in 2002.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















