






2005: LVCO Kicks Off 25th Anniversary Season at Muhlenberg College  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











LVCO Kicks Off 25th Anniversary Season at Muhlenberg College 



The Lehigh Valley Chamber Orchestra will kick off its 25th anniversary season on September 9 and 10, 2005. 


	 Friday, August 26, 2005  01:59 PM

“Opening Night” features pianist Christopher O’Riley at Muhlenberg’s Empie Theatre, Baker Center for the Arts. Both performances begin at 8 p.m.
The Lehigh Valley Chamber Orchestra has been the College’s Orchestra-in-Residence since 2001, but they have been playing at Muhlenberg since the Dorothy and Dexter Baker Center for the Arts was built.
Looking ahead to 2006 and the 100 th birthday of the composer Shostakovich, famed pianist O'Riley will be performing in both of the master's piano concerti. Mendelssohn's sunny and popular Italian Symphony and Paul Salerni's new orchestration of A Dance Across Life will add an exciting welcome to the opening concert of this benchmark season. This performance is known as the “Founder’s Concert,” and musicians who has played with the orchestra since its inception will be honored.
O’Riley, well known for his piano renditions of Radiohead songs, is also the host of the NPR radio program “From the Top.” He has toured the U.S. with the world famous Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Chamber Orchestra. He has also recently appeared with the Los Angeles Philharmonic at the Hollywood Bowl, the Minnesota Orchestra and the Pittsburgh Symphony. From early in his career, he has been honored with many awards at the Leeds, Van Cliburn, Busoni and Montreal competitions, as well as an Avery Fisher Career Grant.
A reception will take place following the concert. O’Riley will be present to greet guests and sign CDs.
For ticket information, call the Lehigh Valley Chamber Orchestra at 610-266-8555. For more information on the LVCO’s 25th anniversary series, please visit: http://www.lvco.org.
We invite you to attend a private, pre-performance reception at the house of Muhlenberg College President Randy Helm. Members of the LVCO, O’Riley and Muhlenberg College donors and trustees will be present. We also invite you to take photographs at the public, post-performance reception in the Baker Center for the Arts.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















