






2005: Dr. Simon Priest Named Dean Of The Wescoe School Of Muhlenberg College  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Dr. Simon Priest Named Dean Of The Wescoe School Of Muhlenberg College 



Dr. Simon Priest has been named Dean of the Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College. 


	 Tuesday, August 30, 2005  01:59 PM

In this role, he will lead the College's efforts in continuing education and adult learning, as well as oversee the summer study program. Most recently, Priest was the Chief Executive Officer and President of Virtualteamworks.com in Seattle, Wash. 
In making the announcement, Muhlenberg College Provost Dr. Marjorie Hass said, "this is an exciting time for adult education and the Wescoe School is positioned well for the future. With his academic and corporate background, and an excellent track record of innovation and entrepreneurship, Dr. Priest is the right person to lead the Wescoe School."
Priest will be charged with maintaining and enhancing current traditional and accelerated degree programs, identifying new program opportunities and developing new corporate and community partnerships in the Lehigh Valley.
He received his bachelor's degree in biochemistry and kinesiology from Simon Fraser University in British Columbia. He earned a master's degree in education from Northern Illinois University and his doctorate in human development and performance from the University of Oregon. Priest has held faculty appointments at the University of Oregon, Texas A&M University and Brock University in Ontario.
Priest spent two years as the interim director of Canadian Tire Acceptance Limited University. In 1997, he became the chief executive officer and president of Virtualteamworks.com. 
Virtualteamworks.com builds virtual teams, develops global leaders, and trains electronic facilitators. The company uses its unique brand of internet experiential learning and several online communication technologies.
Priest will begin his duties September 1. He replaces Dr. James Brennan, who stepped down to spend more time in his consulting practice. Brennan will continue to teach at the Wescoe School. 
The Wescoe School is the division of continuing studies at Muhlenberg College. Formerly known as the Evening College, the Wescoe name was adopted in 2002 to honor Dr. Clark Wescoe, one of the College's most distinguished alumni.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg College is a private, Lutheran-affiliated, highly selective, liberal arts college in Allentown, Pa. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















