






Innovation and Entrepreneurship (minor) | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu





















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsInnovation and Entrepreneurship (minor) 




Innovation and Entrepreneurship (minor)
Learn to develop the skills that will help you succeed in entrepreneurial ventures across every conceivable discipline and industry.










The Minor



Develop the entrepreneurial mindset and skills necessary to become the innovators of tomorrow.




Learn More




















The Faculty



Learn from experienced entrepreneurs with a commitment to teaching both the practical and theoretical frameworks of entrepreneurship.





Learn More

























Innovation and Entrepreneurship (minor)











The MinorThe FacultyNewsletterInnovation Challenge











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsInnovation and Entrepreneurship (minor) 




















Experiential Learning 



As an Innovation and Entrepreneurship minor, you will have many opportunities to develop solutions to real-world problems, validate your ideas with potential customers, and develop robust business models. Our courses are designed to allow students to explore their own entrepreneurial journey while providing a solid foundation in the basics.




Learn More



















Strong Liberal Arts Foundation



Innovation and Entrepreneurship at Muhlenberg is firmly rooted in the liberal arts tradition. We believe that entrepreneurship is about more than understanding business basics. Our students have explored market solutions to environmental issues in collaboration with our Sustainability program; the role of human creativity in innovation with our psychology department; and the value of artistic integrity to artists seeking self-employment in the arts in courses linked to our fine arts programs. 





Learn More



















Opportunities Outside the Classroom



The Entrepreneurship Program offers many opportunities for students to explore their interests outside of the classroom. We host many events, both on and off campus, where students have the opportunity to meet with successful entrepreneurs and visit start-up ventures. We also provide support and mentorship to students with entrepreneurial ideas through our Entrepreneurship Center and Maker Space. 




Learn More










 


 












In their words



























INE was challenging yet rewarding. The essential lesson from the program for me was to look to the future, to create the businesses needed tomorrow.


Dermerkersal Karbah (Dk) ‘20 , Major: Business Administration Minor: Entrepreneurship, Sustainability Studies












INE challenged me to be a creative, independent thinker. Off campus experiences complemented and enhanced the knowledge obtained in classes.


Emily Sinensky  ‘21 , Major: Business Administration Minors: Entrepreneurship












INE showed me the value of networks. Just because one doesn't know something, doesn't mean they can't try to find someone who does.


Robin Chodak  ‘22 , Major: Theater Minors: Entrepreneurship






 




Dermerkersal Karbah (Dk) ‘20





Emily Sinensky  ‘21





Robin Chodak  ‘22
























NEWS AT MUHLENBERG





November 2, 2021








Integrative Learning Course Examines Where Science and Entrepreneurship Meet





Life Science Innovations, team-taught by a professor and an alum, explores the drug development process and its ethical implications as well as the wide variety of career options in the biotech industry. 











July 30, 2021








Muhlenberg Faculty Receive Grant to Develop New Entrepreneurship and Sustainability Program





The program will prepare students to develop groundbreaking solutions to local and global climate and food-system challenges.











July 27, 2021








How Students From Rwanda and Liberia Have Found a Home at Muhlenberg





Since 2014, the College has partnered with an organization that identifies exceptional women from post-conflict countries and supports them as they pursue a U.S. education.











May 3, 2021








Muhlenberg to Break Ground for Parkway Boulevard Building





One of the first 20 projects in the world to pursue CORE green certification, the new campus building will provide over 20,000 square feet of academic and student programming space.





All News#caret_right">

















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















