






2005: Joshua Gamson, Sociologist And Professor, To Lecture At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Joshua Gamson, Sociologist And Professor, To Lecture At Muhlenberg College



Joshua Gamson, associate professor of sociology at the University of San Francisco, a prominent sociologist of culture, will lecture at Muhlenberg College. 


	 Wednesday, September 21, 2005  01:59 PM

his lecture is a part of the series, The Ethics and Politics of Identity. Gamson’s talk, “Straight Eye for the Queer Guy: Reality Television, Shopping, & the New Gay Visibility ,” will be held on September 29 at 7 p.m. in the Recital Hall, Baker Center for the Arts. 
A reception will follow the lecture. This event is free and open to the public. 

Author of a leading treatment of celebrity culture ( Claims to Fame, 1994) and frequent contributor to debates on gay and lesbian media exposure, Joshua Gamson’s award-winning Freaks Talk Back: Tabloid Talk Shows and Sexual Nonconformity (1998) explores the unintended consequences of Jerry Springer-style, ratings-driven outrageousness for “deviant” sexual identities.
This talk will raise questions of conscience around media visibility and identity. Dr. Gamson focuses on the intersection of gay representation and social class as they have been structured by reality T.V. His lecture explores the commercialization of identity, the pursuit of “respectability,” and how gay men are being positioned as tutors for class-specific behaviors. What are we to make of the new gay visibility on shows like Queer Eye for the Straight Guy? Gamson’s work on media-refracted sexuality asks us to ponder both the fluidity and consequences of categories like “marginal” and “respectable.”
Gamson’s appearance at Muhlenberg is co-sponsored by the Faculty Humanities Seminar.
 The Ethics and Politics of Identity is a year long series of programs, sponsored by the Muhlenberg College Center for Ethics , about the ethical challenges that surround the changing categories of social, national, and global identities.
For more information on the series, or to view the schedule of events for the fall semester, please visit: www.muhlenberg.edu/cultural/ethics. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















