






2005: Rodenbaugh To Deliver Wescoe Commencement Address  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Rodenbaugh To Deliver Wescoe Commencement Address 



Marlene Rodenbaugh, Ph.D. will deliver the commencement address to graduates of the Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College, at 11 a.m. on Saturday, October 15, 2005. 


	 Thursday, September 29, 2005  01:59 PM


Dr. Rodenbaugh is president of HANDLEY Group, a consulting firm focused on collaborative leadership development and team dynamics. Early in her career, she served as the director of two clinical laboratories and the President of Lifecodes, a DNA identity company and a subsidy of Quantum Chemicals. She also held executive marketing positions with three divisions of Johnson & Johnson, leading the introduction of two successful products. She later founded a database marketing company providing strategic planning for Fortune 100 clients.
Dr. Rodenbaugh believes that technical expertise and strategic thinking are not enough to lead in today’s business environment—that the exigencies so strongly associated with effective leadership have no power without emotional intelligence. She feels that too often emotional intelligence in organizational life is seen as a minefield to be avoided at all costs. With that in mind, Dr. Rodenbaugh now focuses her work with clients, students, and community groups in understanding how the weaving of emotionally based relationships can have a profound influence on the bottom line. She recently co-authored “Team Mirroring: Illusions and Realities of Team Dynamics and Development.”
With a personal mission of lifelong learning, Dr. Rodenbaugh earned a Ph.D. in Applied Management and Decision Sciences from Walden University in 2002. From a class of over 100 students, she received the Harold Hodgkinson Award bestowed upon the graduate whose dissertation is judged to meet the highest university standards of academic excellence. Her research focused on the effectiveness of experiential learning in an executive training program. Dr. Rodenbaugh shares and understands the adult student experience; she also earned an MBA from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1984, while juggling classes, work, and a family with two teenagers—the daunting task so familiar to today’s Wescoe School graduates. She also earned a B.S. in Medical Technology from Colby Sawyer College.
Dr. Rodenbaugh is a familiar face at the Wescoe School as an instructor in Marketing, Business Ethics, Leadership and Team Dynamics. She also facilitates a Leadership Dynamics Program at Syracuse University. The program is a novel approach to leadership that reflects the new ways in which we live, work and learn—a whole system of relationships in order to get things done.
Along with these diverse academic and career achievements, Dr. Rodenbaugh is a private pilot, world traveler, involved in several community projects as well as the support of projects in South Africa. She and her husband, Bob, live in Doylestown, PA and have two adult children.
Rosemary Powers Kanester of Allentown, will be this year’s student speaker.
The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College provides adult learners with an opportunity to pursue lifelong education, and to do so in ways that recognize their experience, maturity, motivation, and life circumstances, and capacity for independent scholarship. It encompasses the Accelerated Degree program, Summer Study, a liberal arts program, and Teacher Certification. For more information contact 484-664-3300 or www.muhlenberg.edu/wescoe.













 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















