






2005: Muhlenberg College Faculty And The Civic Theatre Join To Present Film Series | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Muhlenberg College Faculty And The Civic Theatre Join To Present Film Series



The Muhlenberg College faculty and the Civic Theatre will join forces once again to present the third Muhlenberg Film Forum. 


	 Thursday, October 20, 2005  01:59 PM

Created as part of the Civic Theatre’s 19th Street Film series, this series consists of post-film discussions, led by Muhlenberg College faculty. The forum schedule is as follows:
 GOOD NIGHT AND GOOD LUCK  – (October 24 – 30) In the 1950s, U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy led a witch-hunt for suspected communists living in the United States. This film, written and directed by George Clooney, chronicles the efforts of broadcast journalist Edward R. Murrow as he reveals the truth behind the McCarthy hearings. Dr. Jim Bloom of the English department and Dr. Paul McEwan of the communication department, will lead a discussion following the October 26 film.
 SEPARATE LIES – (October 29 – November 6) In the directorial debut of Academy Award-winning screenwriter, Julian Fellowes, the seemingly perfect marriage of Anne (Emily Watson, Gosford Park) and James (Tom Wilkinson, The Full Monty) threatens to unravel after a tragic accident reveals the truth behind the lies. Dr. Jim Bloom of the English department will lead a discussion following the November 2 film. 
 EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED –  (November 5 – 12) Based on the critically acclaimed novel by Jonathan Safran Foer, Liev Schreiber directs Elijah Wood (The Lord of the Rings) in the story of a young man's quest to find the woman who saved his grandfather in a small Ukrainian town that was wiped off the map by the Nazi invasion. Dr. Luba Iskold of the department of languages, literatures and cultures and Dr. Robert Croskey of the history department will lead a discussion following the November 9 film. 
All films start at 7:30 p.m., and discussions will follow. The discussions are part of the ticket price for that evening. For ticket information, call the Civic Theatre box office at 610-432-0888. The entire schedule is available at www.civictheatre.com/film/schedule.html.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















