






2005: Documentary Film Maker Eric Stange To Lecture At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Documentary Film Maker Eric Stange To Lecture At Muhlenberg College



Award-winning documentary film-maker Eric Stange will spend a week at Muhlenberg College beginning on Monday, October 24, as a part of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Scholar Program. 


	 Monday, October 17, 2005  01:59 PM

Stange, whose work focuses on historical documentary, will spend the week attending classes and meeting with students and faculty. On October 25, Stange will preview a portion of his new film, “The War that Made America” at 7 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. A discussion will follow the screening.
“The War That Made America” takes place on the wild frontier of Pennsylvania in 1754, when three great cultures clashed, and a young officer named George Washington learned the bitter lessons of war. This four-hour television movie is history that has been waiting to be told about a poorly understood – but vastly important – period of American history. The story of the French and Indian War has never been told on television before, and this series is expected to awaken new interest in this history, both among American audiences and around the world when the broadcast rights are sold internationally.
Stange is an Emmy award-winner and the executive producer of Spy Pond Productions. His dynamic films, including “Murder at Harvard” and “Brother Can You Spare a Billion?” are intended to awaken and explore complex yet important issues that deal with the human experience. Many of his programs have aired on PBS, The Discovery Channel and National Geographic Television.
Stange has always had a deep interest in issues connected to the presentation of history through film and television. Recently, he was a research fellow at the Charles Warren Center at Harvard University, which devoted the year to exploring the intersection of history and film.
Before becoming a filmmaker, Stange worked as a print journalist. His previous teaching experience includes adjunct appointments in journalism at Boston University and Emerson College.
Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows connect a liberal education with the world beyond the campus by bringing thoughtful and successful practitioners to colleges for a week of classes and informal discussions with students and faculty.
 The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation has developed and conducted programs in higher education since 1945. More than 200 colleges have participated in the Visiting Fellows program since 1973. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















