






2005: Bioethicist And Historian Alice Dreger To Lecture At Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 






2005













2005











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2005 











Bioethicist And Historian Alice Dreger To Lecture At Muhlenberg College



Alice Dreger, an historian and bioethicist whose observations center broadly on the relationships between science, medicine and identity, will lecture at Muhlenberg College. 


	 Thursday, October 27, 2005  01:59 PM

The lecture isa part of the series, The Ethics and Politics of Identity. Dreger’s talk, “ Conjoined Twins, Intersex, and the Future of Normal,” will be held on November 8 at 7 p.m. in Moyer Hall, Miller Forum. A reception will follow the lecture. This event is free and open to the public. 
Through her work, Dreger has examined the historical approaches to the treatment of people born with “abnormal” bodies, including reproductive anatomies ( Hermaphrodites and the Medical Invention of Sex) and conjoined twins ( One of Us: Conjoined Twins and the Future of Normal). The larger goal of Dreger’s work has been to critically examine the socio-political structures of power that define normality and abnormality within the clinic. Dreger’s scholarship has also helped to catalyze activism within the intersexed community; she currently serves as the Director of Medical Education for the Intersex Society of North America
Clinical science has worked incessantly to catalogue bodily deviations from the normal state. In “ Conjoined Twins, Intersex, and the Future of Normal,” Dreger will ask provocative questions about these classifications and the ways in which abnormality is defined by the clinic. Western medicine has been largely invested in defining bodily otherness and has co-created a large and successful economy driven by the sale of “normalizing” goods.
These structures are often resisted by (and are thus threatened by) those who would base their identity on disease and/or abnormality. Dreger will examine the ethics of identity as it relates to normality/ freakishness, but with a special attention to medically-defined otherness and the social function of the clinic.
 The Ethics and Politics of Identity is a year long series of programs, sponsored by the Muhlenberg College Center for Ethics , about the ethical challenges that surround the changing categories of social, national, and global identities.
For more information on the series, or to view the schedule of events for the fall semester, please visit: www.muhlenberg.edu/cultural/ethics.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















