






Vocations | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeNewman CenterVocations 






Vocations














Vocations











The CenterActivitiesVocationsResourcesVolunteering











Home
Student LifeNewman CenterVocations 












Vocation — A Call to Serve...
Jesus told His disciples, "I came to serve, not to be served." A vocation is a call to serve. It is a profession, an urge, and a predisposition to undertake a certain type of work. It is a choice for which you are personally suited. The central question always is: "How best can I serve my God and others?" If you feel a calling to the married life, there are many Church ministries from which to choose. Many are in need of your service, as a Deacon, a Eucharistic Minister, a visitor to the sick and aged, or an usher. Whatever you choose, do something that serves others. When you do this, you are serving God. If you feel a calling to the priesthood or religious life, ask questions and talk to priests or religious. They can help you to know your vocation or career, or even your own true self. Above all, start with prayer. Whatever your vocation, if you are good at what you do, it is a gift from God. Only through prayer will you be able to recognize what vocation gift He wants to give you.
The Church Needs Priests. To fulfill her fundamental mission; to announce the Gospel and renew Christ's self offering for the life of the world. Without priests, the Church would not be able to obey the command of Christ to "Go therefore and make disciples of all nations (Mt 28:19) and to do this in remembrance of me" (Cor 11:24). In the mission of the Church, these two commands are inseparable. The Gospel is not just a matter of words; it is also a matter of deeds, of doing what Jesus did. If no one answers God's call to the ministerial priesthood, who will lead us in our Christian mission? Please pray for more men to open their hearts to a priestly spirituality.
 
What Kind of People Become Sisters?
Are they uncommonly holy and saint-like? No, they are women who make mistakes, women who aren't afraid to be human while in God's service. Are they women who can't face the competition of the "real" world? No, they are women who believe that through ministry they can immerse themselves in our world and make a positive change. Are they women who prefer a life of solitude? No, they are women who love others — women who find real satisfaction chatting with a 93 year old parishioner, holding the hand of a cancer patient, listening to the pain of a troubled teen. They are women with the courage to touch lives, hearts, and souls in a high tech, unchurched world. Are you that kind of woman?
A study of Catholic young people in the U.S. showed that 75% feel they have never been encouraged to pursue the religious life. There are many young people out there wondering what vocation path to follow; some of them are waiting for a suggestion or two from their peers, family or acquaintances. You could ask, "What are your plans for the future? Have you thought about pursuing law, medicine, religion?" Those whom you ask may feel that you see something in them to prompt your inquiry. Encourage them to think and talk seriously about their future and then help them pursue it, if possible. Most of all, pray for our young people to follow the path that God has set out for them.
 
Vocation Resources    [ All open in separate windows ]
 




Vision Vocation Network


Diocese of Allentown Vocations


USA Council of Serra International



 ‌
‌ 
‌ 





























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















