






Graphic Identity Program | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesOffice of CommunicationsCampus IdentityGraphic Identity Program 






Graphic Identity Program














Graphic Identity Program











Style GuideGraphic Identity ProgramOfficial College Graphics











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesOffice of CommunicationsCampus IdentityGraphic Identity Program 













MUHLENBERG COLLEGE GRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION PROGRAM
It is important for Muhlenberg College to project and maintain an image of quality, integrity and commitment to all internal and external audiences. For many individuals, their first or only contact with Muhlenberg is through its publications. Therefore it is important that we maintain a general graphic consistency in the production of all future publications.
An effective identification program enables external audiences to distinguish Muhlenberg College from its competitors. It is vital to our recognition efforts with prospective students, alums and development prospects. Consistency is critical.
It is important that materials be easily identified as derived from Muhlenberg College. It is important that when someone sees one of our publications, it is instantly recognizable and representative of MUHLENBERG COLLEGE.
The words Muhlenberg College should appear on all College publications and all materials that represent the College. We must keep a distinction from LVHN-Muhlenberg, Muhlenberg High School and other organizations.
The Logo: This is the primary element in Muhlenberg's graphic identity. This should be prominently displayed on all official publications and media produced by Muhlenberg, or any institute, center or organization within the College. If you opt not to use the logo, the words Muhlenberg College should be conspicuous on the cover.
The Seal: The seal should be restricted to use on official documents of the College, such as certificates, awards, honors and more traditional and formal documents. Blue books, handbooks, manuals and directories are acceptable materials for using the seal. The Seal should be used carefully since it has religious connotations that may impact prospective students, such as those of Jewish or Muslim faiths.
The Mule: The Mule is an athletic symbol, and its use is largely confined to athletic materials. The Mule has been, and can continue to be, used as part of a logo, graphically depicting the mule with a graduation cap or the mule waving a flag. This is acceptable with the reminder that certain publications do not lend themselves to art of this nature.
Colors: The official colors of the College are PMS 201 Red and PMS 429 Gray. The official red of the College website is Hex code:#A41D36. Visit the Web Guidelines & Standards site for additional information.
Size: The logo must be identifiable and conspicuous on all college publications.
Fonts/Typefaces: Here are the recommended typefaces already in use for most College identity materials:



Serif
Sans-Serif


Merriweather (click to download)
Merriweather Sans (click to download)


Lucida Bright
Lucida Sans



An effective identification program enables external audiences to distinguish Muhlenberg College from its competitors and it is vital to our recruitment and promotional efforts with prospective students, alums and development prospects. The office of communications (x3230) is available to answer any questions and is available to preview all work prior to completion.
As you prepare materials in the future for print, broadcast and electronic media, please follow these guidelines. If you utilize off-campus designers or printers, please make them aware of our graphic identity program and ask them to refrain from introducing conflicting graphic elements.
If you have any questions, please call Brooke Porcelli in the office of communications at 484-664-3230. Thank you in advance for your support of this campus-wide effort.




















Contact Us

Office of Communications









Email

communications@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3230







Address

Muhlenberg College
484-664-3477 (fax)
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















