



Trexler Library | Muhlenberg College














Skip to Main Content










College Home
College Portal
My Library Account






2021-2022 Updates

Campus Pandemic Information
Visiting the Library
Accessing Print Resources
Accessing Online Resources
Off-Campus Access
Research Support
Faculty Resources



About Us

Contact Us
Hours & Directions
Staff
Student Employment
Library Spaces &Room Reservations
Library Technology
Purchase Suggestions

Forms

Comments
Course Reserves Request
Faculty Study Request
Interlibrary Loan Request
Library Instruction Request
Purchase Suggestion Request




Policies

Collection Development
Copyright
Gift Materials
Lost & Found
Privacy & Confidentiality
Public Relations Policy
Public Service Policy
Safety and Emergency Policy
Textbook Policy





Research

Get Started with Research
Subject Guides
Citation Guides
Copyright Information
Databases A-Z
Ask a Librarian


Borrowing

My Library Account
Lending Policies
Interlibrary Loan
Search Reserves
Course Reserves Home
Film Screenings
Technology to Borrow


Library Spaces

Library Spaces
Classrooms
Student Spaces
Special Resource Rooms
Floor Plans
Faculty Studies


Faculty Resources

Teaching and Learning
Collection Development
Copyright at Muhlenberg
Faculty Lending Policy
Faculty Studies
Information Literacy & Instructional Support
Library Committee
Library Liaisons
Open Access
Place an Item on Reserve
Suggest a Purchase


Special Collections

Special Collections & Archives
Muhlenberg College Digital Repository
Student Honors Theses








Special Collections & Archives


menu


About Us

Collectionsexpand_more

Special Collections
Archives
Digital Collections


Digital Projects
Exhibits
Class Visits



About Us

Collectionsexpand_more

Special Collections
Archives
Digital Collections


Digital Projects
Exhibits
Class Visits







Digital Projects
Materials from Special Collections and Archives have been incorporated into digital projects across campus, many of which were created by students as part of an independent study or internship. Others were the result of collaborations between Special Collections and departments across campus. A sampling of these projects is made available here.







Toward Diversity
A collaboration between students and the Muhlenberg Memories Project team, this site, launched in Spring 2022,  begins to tell the story of Black history at Muhlenberg from 1926 through today by way of oral history interviews with alumni, archival research, and digital storytelling. (Read more).







The Muhlenberg Memories Project

Explore Muhlenberg in the 1940s and 1960s, learn about its historic buildings, and more through this multimodal platform create by Dr. Kate Ranieri and Anthony Dalton of Media & Communication, in collaboration with Special Collections. (Read more).
                    






Trexler Transcribes
Welcome to Trexler Library's crowdsourced transcription portal. This initiative is an opportunity for you to contribute to digital scholarship at Muhlenberg College by helping us to convert our unique digitized holdings into searchable text that is more accessible to researchers. (Read more).







Allentown Band Archives and Storytelling Partnership
Since the summer of 2018, Special Collections and Archives has partnered with the historic Allentown Band to help catalog its resources and make them more accessible to the public.  This project site is the result of that work, which has taken place through coursework, internships, and independent studies. The Band's historical image collection can be accessed through the site. (Read more).







“Muhlenberg Pathways to Present” walking tour of campus
Muhlenberg Pathways to Present is a website and free app that put the history of Muhlenberg College at your fingertips. Take a self-guided walking tour of the campus to learn more about the individuals, buildings, and events that shaped the College. Explore its history though archival materials, interviews, and student research.







Muhlenberg College Timeline of Visitors
Maddux Pearson '18 dug into the College's archives to create an interactive timeline of the most significant visitors to come to campus in the 20th century. (Read more).








Muhlenberg's Theatre History Timeline
Researching in the archives, Sasha Cheer '19 crafted a timeline of theatre history at Muhlenberg from its origins in the 19th century through today.








World War I in France through the eyes of Martin D. Fetherolf, Class of 1914

Jona Lieberman ‘20 analyzed the manuscript of Martin D. Fetherolf’s war memoir to create a story-map of his experiences. (Read more).








Lehigh Valley Historical Maps Consortium

Trexler Library is part of this consortial effort to centralize the digitized and print maps relating to the Greater Lehigh Valley. (Read more).
						














Muhlenberg College







Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104




484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Conference & Event Services





A-Z Index








Social





Facebook





Instagram





Twitter





YouTube





LinkedIn








©

2019 Muhlenberg College








