



Trexler Library | Muhlenberg College














Skip to Main Content










College Home
College Portal
My Library Account






2021-2022 Updates

Campus Pandemic Information
Visiting the Library
Accessing Print Resources
Accessing Online Resources
Off-Campus Access
Research Support
Faculty Resources



About Us

Contact Us
Hours & Directions
Staff
Student Employment
Library Spaces &Room Reservations
Library Technology
Purchase Suggestions

Forms

Comments
Course Reserves Request
Faculty Study Request
Interlibrary Loan Request
Library Instruction Request
Purchase Suggestion Request




Policies

Collection Development
Copyright
Gift Materials
Lost & Found
Privacy & Confidentiality
Public Relations Policy
Public Service Policy
Safety and Emergency Policy
Textbook Policy





Research

Get Started with Research
Subject Guides
Citation Guides
Copyright Information
Databases A-Z
Ask a Librarian


Borrowing

My Library Account
Lending Policies
Interlibrary Loan
Search Reserves
Course Reserves Home
Film Screenings
Technology to Borrow


Library Spaces

Library Spaces
Classrooms
Student Spaces
Special Resource Rooms
Floor Plans
Faculty Studies


Faculty Resources

Teaching and Learning
Collection Development
Copyright at Muhlenberg
Faculty Lending Policy
Faculty Studies
Information Literacy & Instructional Support
Library Committee
Library Liaisons
Open Access
Place an Item on Reserve
Suggest a Purchase


Special Collections

Special Collections & Archives
Muhlenberg College Digital Repository
Student Honors Theses








Special Collections & Archives


menu


About Us

Collectionsexpand_more

Special Collections
Archives
Digital Collections


Digital Projects
Exhibits
Class Visits



About Us

Collectionsexpand_more

Special Collections
Archives
Digital Collections


Digital Projects
Exhibits
Class Visits







About Us
Trexler Library’s Special Collections & Archives Department is the repository for Muhlenberg’s collections of rare books, manuscripts, photographs, sound and visual recordings, maps, and ephemera, including material relating to the College's history. Special Collections is responsible for collecting, preserving, exhibiting, and providing access to these unique and rare primary materials for the use of scholars and the Muhlenberg community for research or in the service of instructional programs.
Read more about Trexler Library’s Special Collections and Archives in the Summer 2016 issue of the Muhlenberg Magazine.
Visit
The Special Collections office is located on Level B of Trexler Library, to the left of the elevator and stairwell. Materials may be viewed by appointment from 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Making an appointment with the Special Collections & Archives Librarian in advance of your arrival will ensure that your research materials are ready for your visit.
Beginning in Fall 2021, Special Collections & Archives is pleased to welcome external researchers and visitors back to Trexler Library. These patrons are expected to abide by the pandemic protocols put in place by Muhlenberg College. 


Access Policy
The Special Collections are available for use by Muhlenberg College students, faculty, staff, and persons with a reasonable need to use the materials. 
Special Collections materials are non-circulating. Certain exceptions may be made if the condition of the material will allow circulation, and the need for use warrants it. Some materials have microform editions or circulating copies. Patrons will be referred to these first.
To use Special Collections materials, the patron must come to the office and fill out a Special Collections Call Slip. Copies of the Call Slip are also available at the Lending Services Desk. The Special Collections & Archives Librarian will retrieve the material requested; patrons generally are not permitted access to Special Collections storage areas. All materials must be used in the Special Collections office, and must be handled with great care. Only pencils and loose leaf paper will be allowed at the study desk. Food and drink are not permitted. The Library reserves the right to refuse any copying request if it is not in the best interest of the preservation of the material.
Most of the Special Collections material is catalogued and can be found online in the Trexler Library Catalog. Uncataloged items, such as faculty journal articles, realia, ephemera, and audio visual materials in the Muhlenberg College and Pennsylvania German Collections are also available for research. For more information on the Collections, please visit the specific collection web page or contact the Special Collections & Archives Librarian.


Contact
Susan Falciani Maldonado
Special Collections & Archives Librarian484.664.3694
susanfalciani@muhlenberg.edu




Visit Trexler Library Special Collections on Instagram

Visit Trexler Library Special Collections on Twitter












Muhlenberg College







Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104




484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Conference & Event Services





A-Z Index








Social





Facebook





Instagram





Twitter





YouTube





LinkedIn








©

2019 Muhlenberg College








