






Programs | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesGraver ArboretumPrograms 






Programs














Programs











About GraverResearchProgramsVirtual TourCollectionsHow to Get ThereConserving Graver











Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesGraver ArboretumPrograms 













Programs - Graver Arboretum
College Field Studies Graver Arboretum is used as a field station for biology and environmental studies classes at Muhlenberg, including botany, ecology, and physiology. 
College Research Muhlenberg students are involved in research at the arboretum, and have opportunities to study the plants, animals and habitats found at Graver.  Examples of student research include evaluating insect and plant interactions, monitoring amphibian reproduction, surveying aquatic ecosystem and using GIS technology to map arboretum specimens.
Guided Tours Guided tours of the arboretum and its collections are available with advance notice, to adult community and educational groups.  Special tour topics are sometimes presented by Muhlenberg faculty and staff.
K-12 Field Study Modules From 2001-2006, Graver Arboretum hosted field studies for local area schools as part of a program called "Increasing Contextual Learning in the Environmental Science Classroom."  A series of K-12 grade-level field study modules designed to meet the Pennsylvania Department of Education's standards for environment and ecology was developed, each with a unit outline for preparing students for a field study experience.  These modules have field-tested techniques for organizing an environmental field study, and for follow-up with classroom activities and evaluation.  The modules include unit and lesson plans, materials lists, copy masters, and references.  Several modules also have accompanying PowerPoint presentations.  The modules are still available as resources for schools, environmental centers and educators to use to develop field study programs that emphasize hands-on science.  Click here for a comprehensive overview of these program materials. 
Log Books for Scouts Muhlenberg student environmental education interns, as part of the Math Science Partnership for Greater Philadelphia, developed log books that were used for the "Sharing Your World With Wildlife" Weeblos badge and "Eco-Explorer" Brownie patch.  These programs are no longer available at Graver Arboretum.  However, scout leaders can download the log books and use them at other sites.  Click on the links above to view the log book pages.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















