






Peer Tutoring | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterPeer Tutoring 






Peer Tutoring














Peer Tutoring











Meet the StaffPeer TutoringAcademic CoachingCourse WorkshopsPeer MentoringTips for College SuccessTechnology ToolboxCampus ResourcesStudent Jobs











Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterPeer Tutoring 











Who can get a tutor?
Individual and small-group tutoring is free and available to all Muhlenberg students. Tutor assignments are made based on tutor availability and student demand. ARC staff work hard to identify tutors in all of the major subject areas. Individual tutoring is available in both the fall and spring semesters.
What do tutors do?
Tutors help students clarify and reinforce critical course concepts, develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills, hone active approaches to learning, and work towards high levels of academic achievement in partnership with course instructors.
How many tutors does the ARC employ? 
ARC employs between 250 and 300 peer tutors in the fall and spring semesters.
How many students request tutors?  
ARC fills approximately 1,200 individual tutor requests per year. Academic support is part of the culture at Muhlenberg. There is no stigma associated with tutoring. It’s highly recommended by upper-class students. Many of our tutors have been tutored themselves.
How are tutors selected? 
Applicants must receive a faculty nomination from within the subject area, meet specific GPA and course grade criteria, complete an application, and pass an interview with ARC staff.
Are there specific GPA and course grade requirements to become a tutor? 
All tutors are required to have a minimum GPA of a 3.0. Due to the competitive nature of the position, most tutors have a GPA of a 3.5 or higher and an A in the course being tutored.
How are tutors trained?
Muhlenberg’s peer tutoring program enjoys a national reputation. We are certified by the College Reading and Learning Association through the master tutor level. All new tutors are required to attend seven hours of mandatory training prior to the start of their employment. Continued training is facilitated by our head tutors each week during the semester.
How do students go about getting a peer tutor? 
Tutor request forms are available in between the end of the drop/add period (10 days into the semester) and two weeks after mid-terms. After filling out the required form, students take the request to their instructor for endorsement. Both the student and the tutor are notified of their assignment by email within one week. The meeting time and place is then determined by mutual agreement between the tutor and the student.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















