






Economics  | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsAccounting, Business, Economics and FinanceEconomics  






Economics 














Economics 











Faculty and StaffMission and GoalsMajorMinorInternshipsExperimentsCourses











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsAccounting, Business, Economics and FinanceEconomics  



















What can anEconomics major do?
Courses in Economics



About the Economics Program The economics major provides students with a comprehensive understanding of fundamental principles that underlie the functioning of the market system and the national and international economy and the analytical and quantitative skills needed for a thoughtful assessment of current economic issues and policies. Additionally, the major prepares students for graduate work in business and economics and careers with business and government. The department houses a chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international honor society in economics.

What can an Economics major do? Economics majors and minors have multiple opportunities throughout their four years at Muhlenberg to research the topics that interest them most. Students explore the many applications of economic models by looking at how traditional theories apply to unorthodox situations or by developing theories of their own.







 "In my final paper for Dr. Raymond's Econometrics class (ECN 350), I developed an econometric model of box office revenue based on Google search volume. Dr. Raymond suggested I submit the paper to an undergraduate economics conference at the Federal Reserve of Dallas. My paper was accepted, and I received funds from both the ABEF Department and the Office of Academic Life to fly out to Texas to present my paper. I worked closely with my advisor, Dr. Laposata, to prepare my 20 minute presentation; he and his wife accompanied me to Dallas for the conference."





"The conference was a lot larger than I had expected, but this only enhanced the experience. I had a great time listening to the presentations of all of my peers, and even presenting my own work (though that was a bit more nerve-wracking). My paper and presentation received a lot of positive feedback, and some of the commenters gave me ideas for my next research endeavor. Aside from the academic aspect, I enjoyed traveling with Dr. Laposata and getting to talk with him about all sorts of topics completely unrelated to economics. Thanks to Dr. Raymond and Dr. Laposata, I was able to take my work to an entirely new level, and have a lot of fun along the way." 















NEWS AT MUHLENBERG





April 5, 2022







Why I Study ... the International Diamond Industry





Associate Professor of Business & Economics Donna Bergenstock shares how she became interested in her area of research.











December 2, 2021







Now Hiring





The current labor shortage could end in a way that strengthens the economy if employers would provide better pay, benefits and training for their workers.











November 17, 2021








Why I Study ... The Effects of International Finance on Poverty and Inequality Reduction





Assistant Professor of Economics and Finance Lufei Teng explains how she became interested in her area of research.











August 17, 2021








Summer Check-In: Kevin Olifiers





Kevin Olifiers '22 invested his summer time in a valuable internship that allowed him to draw on his academic, athletic and extracurricular activities at Muhlenberg.





All News#caret_right">

















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















