






Fatoumata Binta Bah | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsEducation (certification)FacultyFatoumata Binta Bah 






Faculty














Fatoumata Binta Bah











Fatoumata Binta BahMichael CarboneMark EmerickCathy KimAllyn-Jane MarksJohn RamsaySally RichwineKim RohrbachPearl RosenbergAnn Weaver











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsEducation (certification)FacultyFatoumata Binta Bah 

















  

Fatoumata Binta BahCFD Fellow/Visiting Assistant ProfessorB.A, M.S., The University of DelawarePh.D., The Ohio State Universitybintabah@muhlenberg.edu




Dr. Binta Bah joins the education department as a 2021 Consortium for Faculty Diversity Fellow. Acting as a visiting professor, she teaches Educational Psychology: Child Learning and Development, and Educational Psychology: Adolescent Learning and Development. She earned her PhD in Teaching and Learning, with a specialization in Multicultural and Equity Studies in Education, from the Graduate School of Education at The Ohio State University.
Binta is a scholar in the field of Multicultural and Equity Studies in Education and a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) consultant. Guided by a central focus on the naming and theorizing of the specificity of anti-blackness, her research utilizes Afro-pessimism, Critical Race Theory, and Cultural Studies to examine and address anti-blackness in educational policy and programmatic reform initiatives. Relying on an interdisciplinary lens, her scholarship illuminates how systems of power operate within and outside of educational contexts, which systematically subject Black students to psychic and material harm and violence.
As a teacher educator, Binta utilizes interdisciplinary course reading lists to provide a holistic understanding of the colonial history and function of education. Drawing from various fields such as psychology, African American Studies, Cultural Studies, History, Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies, she asks students to explore and contextualize broader socio-political organization as a way to understand education and schooling. Through her intentional work to facilitate a structural understanding of society, she hopes that future educators are able to reimagine what anti-racist curricula and pedagogy could be within K-12 classrooms.
Presentations
Bah, F.B., Washington, L. (2021, June). Accusing any Black person will do: Exploring antiblackness in institutional policy. Presented at the National Conference on Race and Ethnicity Annual Meeting, Virtual.
Bah, F.B. (2021, April). Freedom! Freedom! Where are You? A Critical Examination of the Efficacy of Policy for Educational Reform. Presented at the American Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, Virtual.
Valauri, A., Bah, F.B., & Whalen, A. (2019, November). A Critical Analysis: Race, Racism, and Mass Incarceration in Early Childhood and Play. Presented at the National Association for Multicultural Educators Annual Conference, Memphis, TN.
San Pedro, T., Gonzalez-Miller, S., Sheets, W., Bah, F.B., Gerrard, C., & Whalen, A. (2018, June). Applying Humanizing & Culturally Sustaining Pedagogies in the Academy. Presented at The Summer Institute & Conference, Columbus, OH.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















