






Getting Started ... | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit








Apply








Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Muhlenberg College School of Continuing StudiesProspective StudentsGetting Started ... 






Getting Started ...














Getting Started ...











The Yellow Ribbon ProgramGetting Started ...Veterans Portal











Home
Muhlenberg College School of Continuing StudiesProspective StudentsGetting Started ... 











Getting Started ...
The School of Continuing Studies offers more than 25 programs of study including Accelerated Degrees and Certificates, Traditional Liberal Arts Degrees, Major Certificates, and Teacher Certification. Caring academic advisors, all former adult students themselves, are here to help you explore alternatives and identify the course of study that best suits your academic and career objectives. Flexible and varied course offerings ensure that each student can plan a schedule that allows attention to his or her other home and work responsibilities.
The School of Continuing Studies accepts transfer courses from similarly accredited community colleges and four year colleges and universities. While an official, sealed transcript will be required for formal transfer of credits, an unofficial transcript or grade report will be useful when you have your initial meeting with a School of Continuing Studies advisor. This will allow us to provide you with an understanding of which courses will be approved for transfer and outline an individualized pathway to completion of your degree. In addition to previous college coursework, we can also help identify alternative sources for credit such as CLEP testing, military service/training and Credit for Prior Learning (as recommended by American Council for Education standards). The School of Continuing Studies has formal articulation agreements: Transfer Guide for LCCC Students and Transfer Guide for NCC Students to make an easy transition to continuing their evening/weekend studies here at Muhlenberg. To request information click here, or to schedule an appointment with an advisor, email us at  continuingstudies@muhlenberg.edu  or call us at 484-664-3300.
 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion










Social








Facebook








Twitter








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit








Apply








Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts






 
 
 


















