






FAQs | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCounseling ServicesFAQs 






FAQs














FAQs











Contact UsSuicide PreventionResources and ReferralsRacism and Mental HealthCOVID-EducationInformation for StudentsInformation for ParentsInformation for FacultyThe Jed Foundation - ULifelineMedical Leave of Absence Policy











Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesCounseling ServicesFAQs 















FAQs
 











          What is counseling?
  








Counseling is a safe, non-judgmental, and confidential setting in which to explore your feelings and thoughts, examine your options, weigh alternatives, and move toward your goals.
Your counselor will ask you questions that will help you clarify your own goals for the therapeutic process. If you are experiencing any troublesome symptoms, your counselor can discuss appropriate treatment options with you. If you and your counselor decide to consider medication as an option, we can provide a referral for a medication evaluation.






          Who will I see for counseling?

  








The Counseling Services staff is made up of licensed professional counselors, licensed clinical social workers, psychologists, a psychiatrist, and graduate interns in these fields. As a group, we represent a wide variety of professional interests and specializations, including multicultural issues, identity, anxiety, depression and more. We are committed to providing services that recognize, respect, and value the diversity of Muhlenberg students.
To learn more about our staff, please visit our Meet the Staff page.






          What about confidentiality?
  








Counseling Services at Muhlenberg College is governed by legal and ethical standards of confidentiality. Any and all participation at Counseling Services is strictly confidential. Any student wishing information to be released to parents, faculty, administration, etc., must sign a release of information indicating this intent.
Furthermore, your counseling records are separate from your academic or administrative records at the College. There are legal limits to confidentiality such as:

Evidence of clear and imminent danger of harm to self or others may require your counselor to report this information to the authorities in an effort to ensure the safety of yourself or others
Pennsylvania state law requires the mandatory and immediate reporting of any information pertaining to the possible physical or sexual abuse of any person under 18 years of age or in the case of elder abuse. Abuse to a person who was under the age of 18 at the time of abuse, but who is now over the age of 18 may prompt mandatory reporting depending on the situation.
A court order, issued by a judge, may require the releasing of information contained in our records or may require a counselor to testify in a court hearing. [This exception does not include judicial hearings held within the College.]







          How do I make an appointment?
  








It's easy to begin working with a counselor. Appointments may be made by coming to the Counseling Services office.
The first step is figuring out what type of appointment you need. We provide two types of initial appointments.
Consultation: A 40 minute session for immediate, emergent, time sensitive or specific concerns that may or may not require a follow-up appointment.
Intake: A 50 minute session to address concerns that may require more than one session to resolve.
We always try to accommodate requests for appointments as quickly as possible, and are usually able to give students an appointment within a week of their request. At the time of scheduling, you will be asked to complete some paperwork.
Any full-time student currently enrolled at Muhlenberg College may use our services.






          What is the cancellation policy?
  








Personal commitment to counseling is important, and we encourage you to keep all appointments that you have scheduled. Providing 24 hour notice of your cancellation allows another student to utilize that appointment time; please be considerate of your fellow peers. If you must miss your session due to an illness or emergency, please call Counseling Services at 484-664-3178.






          What are the procedures for subsequent visits?
  








Counseling Services utilizes a short-term model.  The average number of sessions used per year by the students who visit is approximately 4.  You and your counselor may decide that you would benefit most from longer-term therapy. 
We have an extensive referral network, and in these instances, we can suggest various referral options in the community. Please click here to be directed to our referral list. Depending on the situation, the College may provide transportation for first years to mental health appointment in Allentown.
Group therapy is another option for you to engage in counseling. For many students, group sessions is the best way to work on the issues that brought you to counseling.






          Do I have to pay or use insurance?
  








Counseling services is offered as part of the Health Services fee that full-time, traditional students pay as part of tuition. Therefore, insurance is not necessary. For psychiatric fees, please refer here.






          What services are offered?
  








We offer individual counseling, group counseling, and psychiatric services for students. For more information, please visit our Student Information page.






          Is there a limit on sessions?
  








Students usually start to notice a positive change in their situation after one or two sessions. The average number of counseling sessions a Muhlenberg student attends is 4.





 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















