






2015: Muhlenberg earns Community Engagement Classification by Carnegie Foundation | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg earns Community Engagement Classification by Carnegie Foundation


Muhlenberg College was awarded Community Engagement Classification recertification by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The renewal of the classification is an extension of the distinction first earned by Muhlenberg in 2010.


	 Thursday, January 8, 2015  03:45 PM


Muhlenberg students Reed Schmidt '18, Meaghan Elliot '17 and Alyssa Mannarino '15 work with students at Jefferson Elementary School in Allentown, Pennsylvania.
‌Colleges and universities with an institutional focus on community engagement were invited to apply for the classification, first offered in 2006 as part of an extensive restructuring of The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. Unlike the Foundation’s other classifications that rely on national data, this is an “elective” classification—institutions participated voluntarily by submitting required materials describing the nature and extent of their engagement with the community, be it local or beyond. This approach enabled the Foundation to address elements of institutional mission and distinctiveness that are not represented in the national data on colleges and universities.
Beth Halpern, director of community engagement at Muhlenberg, credits the depth of the College’s relationships with the surrounding community.
"This re-certification challenges our community to push forward for positive change,” says Halpern. “Our students want to do more and get more of their peers involved. The steps taken to earn the Carnegie Classification help keep us accountable as members of our community, and the distinction is a reinforcement of those efforts.”
Muhlenberg College sees engagement as more than simply service to the community. In addition to volunteer opportunities, Muhlenberg community members contribute through academia, the arts, athletics, research, public events, contributions as members of boards of directors, and more. The College aims to actively engage with local Allentown communities.
The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching is committed to developing networks of ideas, individuals and institutions to advance teaching and learning. The foundation joins together scholars, practitioners and designers in new ways to solve problems of educational practice. Toward this end, it works to integrate the discipline of improvement science into education with the goal of building the field’s capacity to improve.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















