






2015: Neuroscience to become 19th academic department of Muhlenberg College. | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Neuroscience to become 19th academic department of Muhlenberg College.


The nationally recognized major will mark the transition to a department at the beginning of the 2016-2017 academic year.


	 Monday, November 23, 2015  07:15 AM


Neuroscience will be the first new academic department since the addition of the Drama Department, now known as Theatre & Dance, in the 1980s.  "As the inaugural chair of the new Department of Neuroscience, Dr. Jeremy Teissere will provide leadership for the evaluation of faculty, advising of students, shaping and quality of the curriculum," said Muhlenberg College President John I. Williams, Jr. "Dr. Teissere will engage in ongoing assessment and benchmarking of Muhlenberg's neuroscience program against the nation's other leading programs."
The evolution of neuroscience from an interdisciplinary program to an academic department propels Muhlenberg to the forefront of undergraduate liberal arts neuroscience programs. Currently, Oberlin College and Pomona College are the only other liberal arts colleges with neuroscience departments.
Neuroscience is among the top nationally recognized and popular majors at Muhlenberg College. In March 2014, the department gained an endowed professorship when Dr. Jeremy Tiessere was selected as the inaugural Stanley Road Endowed Chair, a $1 million grant coupled with a $250,000 matching grant from the Muhlenberg Match fund challenge.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















