






2015: Muhlenberg College circus troupe to host local fifth graders for interactive performance | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg College circus troupe to host local fifth graders for interactive performance


On Friday, Dec. 4, the Circus Troupe of Muhlenberg College will host fifth graders from Jefferson Elementary School at its first Circus Extravaganza.


	 Wednesday, November 25, 2015  02:27 PM


The event, conceived by Muhlenberg senior Adam Halpern, will involve a circus performance in the college’s iconic Paul C. Empie Theatre, a question-and-answer session with the Muhlenberg Circus performers, followed by an interactive session where the school children will go through stations to learn assorted circus-performing skills.
“With various arts and physical education programs cut in the Allentown School District, this event fills a necessary void. By experiencing the imaginative Circus Extravaganza, the 5th Grade students will see the impossible become possible,” says Halpern.
At the Circus Extravaganza, students will participate in 8 different stations, each run by Circus performers or Muhlenberg volunteers. Stations include clowning/comedy, face paint, juggling, tap/rhythm/dance, acrobatics, hula-hoop, high-energy games and improvisation games.
Muhlenberg College launched its Circus Workshop in January 2014, under the direction of Noah Dach ’16 and Henry Evans ’16, and the Muhlenberg Circus premiered in a series of performances in April 2015. The troupe is made up of about 30 Muhlenberg dancers, actors, gymnasts and aerial acrobats, many of whom are performing arts majors. Others participate to enrich their college experience.
Halpern is a neuroscience major and music minor, and plans to attend medical school after graduation to pursue a career as a pediatric neurosurgeon. He one of the jugglers and community outreach leaders.
The Muhlenberg Circus has performed for the Jefferson Arts after-school program, Bethlehem Sands Casino, Zoellner Arts Center at Lehigh University and Muhlenberg’s Best Buddies.
“Community engagement is a vital priority of the Muhlenberg Circus. Together, we make a better and more creative Allentown,” says Halpern.
The Circus Extravaganza will take place on Dec. 4 from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in The Paul C. Empie Theatre at Muhlenberg College. The Muhlenberg Board of Associates is funding the event.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















