






2015: National Book Award winner Phil Klay to give final reading of 2015 Living Writers series at Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











National Book Award winner Phil Klay to give final reading of 2015 Living Writers series at Muhlenberg College


National Book Award winner Phil Klay will give a public reading of his work on Monday, November. 30, at 7 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.


	 Wednesday, November 25, 2015  02:34 PM

This event, the last in the College's fall 2015 Living Writers series, is free and open to the public.
Klay is a graduate of Dartmouth College and a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps. He served in Iraq’s Anbar Province from January 2007 to February 2008 as a public affairs officer. After being discharged, he went to Hunter College and received an M.F.A. His story “Redeployment” was originally published in Granta and is included in "Fire and Forget: Short Stories from the Long War." His writing has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, Newsweek, Granta Tin House and elsewhere.
In 2014, Klay’s short story collection "Redeployment" won the National Book Award for Fiction. He was also shortlisted for the Frank O’Connor Prize and named a National Book Foundation "5 Under 35" honoree. In 2015, he received the Marine Corps Heritage Foundations James Webb award for fiction dealing with U.S. Marines or Marine Corps life and the National Book Critics’ Circle John Leonard Award for best debut work in any genre.
Living Writers, established in 1994, is a course offered once every three years that brings established and emerging writers to Muhlenberg College. Students enrolled in the course read the authors' recent works, and then interact with them directly when they visit campus for a day. The writers come to class, have lunch with students and then give a public reading of their work in the evening.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















