






2015: Muhlenberg's Martin Art Gallery Presents Michael Ananian's "On Looking" | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg's Martin Art Gallery Presents Michael Ananian's "On Looking"


The exhibit is available from November 17 through December 11, 2015.


	 Wednesday, November 25, 2015  02:03 PM

The Martin Art Gallery at Muhlenberg College is pleased to present Michael Ananian’s On Looking, an exhibition which will feature paintings and drawings in our main exhibition space. The work will be on view November 17 through December 11, 2015.
Michael Ananian is a figurative, narrative painter. He explores how narrative frameworks and narrative ideas influence each other. Often the main concern in most contemporary narrative painting is how the form of the painting, that is, its narrative framework or structure, conveys the ideas of the story. Michael is interested in how the narrative ideas can express and create aesthetically exciting pictorial frameworks. His paintings give equal importance to the specific ideas expressed in narrative form and to the resultant form and visual structure itself.
Ananian has shown his work extensively, including at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts Museum, The Eleanor Wilson Museum of Art in Roanoke VA, Hackett/Freeman Gallery in San Francisco, CA, National Academy Museum, NYC, and many other locations across the United States.
Michael Ananian was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and earned his BFA from Rhode Island School of Design, and his MFA from Yale University. He has been on the faculty of University of North Carolina at Greensboro since 1994, where he is professor of painting and drawing. Ananian’s work can be viewed online at michaelananian.com.
The Martin Art Gallery is located in Muhlenberg College’s Baker Center for the Arts; our public programming, artist talks, and exhibitions are all free of charge and open to the public. The Martin Art Gallery is open 12:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. For further information, please visit the Gallery website or call us at 484-664-3467.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















