






History | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsHistory 






History
Examine the principles of historical study, develop the skills of effective research and communication and deepen your understanding of the past.













History











About UsDiversity, Equity, and InclusionFaculty & StaffMajor/Minor RequirementsThematic PathsStudent ExperienceCoursesWhy Study History?Alumni











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsHistory 











Declare Your History Major or Minor Here
Muhlenberg's History Department aspires to a global reach. Our students cultivate a thoughtful and nuanced understanding of past human experiences across time and space and their various contested interpretations. As skilled researchers, problem solvers and writers, they use and analyze historical evidence and enter into dialogue with existing scholarship to present their own interpretations and arguments in persuasive prose. History is central to the liberal arts. We prepare our students to become global citizens who think critically about their place in the world and engage with their communities through an understanding of how past events have shaped contemporary issues.
Our teacher-scholars specialize in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America & the Caribbean, the Middle East and the United States, which ensures curricular breadth and depth on a global scale. Our students explore the human condition from a comparative historical perspective and can pursue in depth their own areas of interest. This History curriculum emphasizes critical thinking, analytical skills and effective writing, while providing opportunities for independent research, internships and study abroad. Our graduates are prepared for professions in public health and medicine, the nonprofit sector, museums, the library sciences, law, government, business and academia.













Our Program
History at Muhlenberg










Student Experience



History students at Muhlenberg engage in research and have the opportunity to take their studies abroad.




Learn More



















Faculty and Staff



The History Department’s faculty cover a wide range of chronological and thematic specializations that span the globe.




Learn More



















Study Abroad



Studying abroad can be a central component of any history major’s or minor’s program at Muhlenberg.




Learn More



















About Us



The History Department offers a wide range of courses that span geography and time. Our faculty includes specialists in most regions of world history.




Learn More



















Requirement for Major and Minor



A student must achieve and maintain at least a 2.00 grade point average in all courses required for the major/minor.




Learn More



















Honors and Awards



Thanks to generous donors, we are able to offer more honors and larger prizes to our best students than most comparable colleges.‌




Learn More





















A New Perspective on a Long-Ago Event
Student Research
Anthropology minor Michaela Feinberg ’19 explored an under-researched facet of Central African history.




Learn More

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















