






RET Metrics | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Metrics 






RET Metrics














RET Metrics











RET Beth ChartRET Beth ProjectCreating a ChartRET CP DataRET CP ProjectRET Dan DataRET Dan ProjectRET Emily ProjectRET Epimecis HortarisRET Field StudyRET GraphLindera BenzoinRET LinksRET MetricsNematode LessonRET Scientific MethodRET Sean ChartRET Sean DataRET Sean ProjectRET Shauna ProjectSticky Card LessonRET Sticky CardsRET Sticky Cards (cont'd)RET Student ProjectsRET StudentsRET Teachers











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Metrics 













Why use Metrics?

The metric system was devised by French scientist in the late 18 th century to help organize the chaos of different units being used to measure. These scientists had two goals in mind. One was to create a system that was used by all and the other was to use decimals rather than fractions. Other than the United States, most of the rest of the world measures in metrics. As scientists, we have adopted the metric system for two main reasons.
First, it is universal. Scientists worldwide use the metric system in their work so that everyone can agree on measurements taken. By sticking to the metric system, it is easier to compare results without error in conversion.
Second, it is simple. The metric system uses one basic unit of measure in each category of measure. For example, all length is measured in meters. All measurements smaller or larger are converted using powers-of-ten multipliers. All basic units use the same prefixes to show a larger or smaller quantity.
The prefixes (meaning what comes in front of the basic unit) in the metric system are Latin based and mean the number they represent. For example, we know that a dozen is 12 of something. The same is true for metrics. A deca is always 10 of something, a kilo is 1000 of something, and so on. The metric system also replaces fractions with decimals which are much easier to convert.









Basic Units:


Length - meter
Volume - liter
Weight - gram
Temp - degrees Celsius



 

Prefixes:



kilo = 1000


centi = 1/100


milli = 1/1000

several others











 
METRIC STEP CHART







When using this chart to convert metric measurements, remember: 

If you are measuring length use meters. 
If you are measuring dry weight use grams.
If you are measuring liquid capacity use liters.
To convert from a larger to smaller metric unit you always multiply.
To convert from a smaller to larger unit you always divide

 
THE STEP CHART: MULTIPLYING AND DIVIDING
When you move down the stairs you are multiplying by 10 for each step. So you are adding a zero to your original number and moving the decimal one place to the right with each step.
When you move up the stairs you are dividing by 10 for each step. You are then adding a zero in FRONT of your original number and placing the decimal one place to the left with each step.
 
THE EASY METHOD:
STEP 1: Determine your starting unit and whether you need to go up or down the ladder.
STEP 2: Determine how many steps there are from your start to the unit you need to be at.
STEP3: Move the decimal the amount of places that was determined in steps 1 and 2.
 
Return to Scientific Method
Return to Students Page
 
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0442049.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
 




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















