






RET Emily Project | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Emily Project 






RET Emily Project














RET Emily Project











RET Beth ChartRET Beth ProjectCreating a ChartRET CP DataRET CP ProjectRET Dan DataRET Dan ProjectRET Emily ProjectRET Epimecis HortarisRET Field StudyRET GraphLindera BenzoinRET LinksRET MetricsNematode LessonRET Scientific MethodRET Sean ChartRET Sean DataRET Sean ProjectRET Shauna ProjectSticky Card LessonRET Sticky CardsRET Sticky Cards (cont'd)RET Student ProjectsRET StudentsRET Teachers











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Emily Project 














Examining the Relationship Between Black Walnut and Spicebush
(Juglans nigra and Lindera benzoin: A Case for Associational Resistance?)
The purpose of this experiment is to better understand the relationship between black walnut (Juglans nigra) and spicebush (Lindera benzoin) - most notably how herbivory of spicebush is affected by black walnut.
STATE THE PROBLEM :
Herbivory on spicebush (L. benzoin) tends to be limited when growing in close proximity to black walnut (J. nigra).
MAKE OBSERVATIONS:

Spicebush (L. benzoin) growing under or near black walnut (J. nigra) trees shows limited signs of herbivory.
Spicebush (L. benzoin) growing in sun and spicebush (L. benzoin) growing in shade have similar herbivory - more away from walnut trees and less when close to walnut.

Background Information (What questions were you trying to answer?):

Is there a significant reduction in herbivory when spicebush (L. benzoin) grows under black walnut (J. nigra)?


Can the addition of allelopathic chemicals to the soil reduce herbivory in spicebush (L. benzoin)?


Can the addition of allelopathic chemicals to spicebush (L. benzoin) leaves reduce herbivory?

FORM A HYPOTHESIS :

Proximity to black walnut (J. nigra) is positively correlated with herbivory.


Uptake of juglone or other chemicals from the surrounding soil makes spicebush (L. benzoin) less susceptible to herbivory.


Throughfall from black walnut (J. nigra) directly onto spicebush (L. benzoin) leaves will reduces growth rate of herbivores.

EXPERIMENT:
Materials:

wheeled measuring tape
Al Tags
flagging tape (orange)
light meter
plotless sampling prism
CIAS - computer image analysis software
juglone solution
walnut hull solution
small paintbrush (2 or more)
30 ziplock bags
30 early instar Epimesis larva
balance

Method:

Make four transects with ten spicebush plants along each transect line. (Be sure to choose areas with variable populations of black walnut trees)

Two transect sites were found at Raker Biological Field Station and Wildlife Sanctuary and two sites were created at Graver Arboretum.
Using a wheeled measuring tape, walk out in a straight line about 40 meters. Every four meters, look for the nearest spicebush plant and tag it using an Al Tag and orange flagging tape.

Collect data about each plant throughout the summer

Closest black walnut (meters)
Closest hickory (meters) –hickory also produces small amounts of juglone
What species of plant was directly over the spicebush plant
Approximate diameter of plant
Gender
Llight readings on 3 different sunny days (using a light meter)
Count the number of walnut and hickory around each plant that were close or large (use a plotless sampling prism)
Number of leaves with herbivory from 4 stems
Average leaf area eaten per plant based on 8 leaves (use CIAS)



Example of a Graph




DRAW A CONCLUSION :
Analysis of Data:
Both of these graphs show no real correlation. I would like the graph to have a positive or negative slope, but both of these just have a horizontal slope so I will continue to work with data and make graphs and hopefully some variables will be closely positively or negatively correlated like the hypothetical example below.
Conclusion:
Both a field experiment and a lab feeding trial support the trend that herbivory is reduced under black walnut (J. nigras ). While leaf origin affected larval performance, leaf area consumed did not vary and experimental additions did not replicate this pattern. A broader assessment of the interaction of walnut and spicebush chemistry, including soil-mediated affects may yield more insight into this relationship. I do not believe walnut/spicebush interactions are as important a factor in this system as other top-down controlling factors like predation of caterpillars by insects and birds. A third experiment that I attempted was ruined because 29 out of 30 caterpillars were eaten by yellow jackets. Unfortunately, there were not enough larvae to repeat the experiment.

 Experimental set-up of failed Experiment 3
 
Return to Student Project Page
Return to NSF-RET Homepage
 
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0442049.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
 




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















