






RET Dan Project | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Dan Project 






RET Dan Project














RET Dan Project











RET Beth ChartRET Beth ProjectCreating a ChartRET CP DataRET CP ProjectRET Dan DataRET Dan ProjectRET Emily ProjectRET Epimecis HortarisRET Field StudyRET GraphLindera BenzoinRET LinksRET MetricsNematode LessonRET Scientific MethodRET Sean ChartRET Sean DataRET Sean ProjectRET Shauna ProjectSticky Card LessonRET Sticky CardsRET Sticky Cards (cont'd)RET Student ProjectsRET StudentsRET Teachers











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFResources for EducatorsRET Dan Project 














The Study of Population Locations of Epimecis Caterpillars
( Demographic Study of Epimecis hortaria )
The purpose of this experiment is to better understand the cycling (highs and lows of young and adult) of the populations of the main caterpillar ( Epimecis hortaria) that feeds on spicebush ( Lindera benzoin).
 
STATE THE PROBLEM :
How does the population of herbivores (caterpillars) vary with the season and between habitats?
MAKE OBSERVATIONS:

There appeared to be a large population of adult caterpillars (Epemicis hortaria) at the beginning of the summer with little difference in number between the interior and edge of the forest.

Background Information (What questions were you trying to answer?):

When are the caterpillars at their highest numbers?


Where are the caterpillars found most often (edge/interior)?

FORM A HYPOTHESIS :

The caterpillars have two peaks in their populations and they are found more frequently in the interior because there is more herbivory in the interior.

EXPERIMENT:
Materials:

Tape Measure
2 Locations with Spicebush
Aluminum Tree Tags
Flagging Tape
Beatsheet (1 sq. meter)
Sharpie
Ziplocks (many)
Tape (labeling)

Method:

Choose two field locations which both contain spicebush on the interior (inside the trees) and on the edge (where forest meets field).
You will need to mark 2 interior transects and 2 edge transects at each location. To mark your transects:
Choose a spicebush plant to start with.
Choose a branch on the plant that looks healthy.
Label it at the base with an aluminum tree tag that has your name and identifying number for that plant. Also tie flagging tape to the branch so it is easier to see.
From your starting plant, walk a straight line. Every 5m stop and label the closest spicebush as you did above.
Each transect should have 5 plants labeled.

You will then need to use the beat sheet. Hold beat sheet under plant (with cross bar frame up).
Grab marked branches so that as much of selected branch material is bent over beat sheet as possible.
Give 5 swift vertical strikes.
Look at the insects that are on your beat sheet.
Count and record the number of Epimecis and Papilio larvae.
Replace all collected organisms back on the plant.

Data:
Example of a data table
Example of a Graph

 
DRAW A CONCLUSION :
Analysis of Data:
The data has shown that there are greater rates of model larva attack and higher model mortality risk at the forest edge. Coincidentally, there is greater herbivore damage to L. benzoin (Spicebush) in forest interior compared to edge environments.
Conclusion:
Landscape edges are known to affect a multitude of environmental variables that may directly or indirectly affect herbivory. Previous studies of L. benzoin have demonstrated that edges may affect “bottom-up” factors that influence herbivory via altered plant characteristics. The current study provides evidence that the “top-down” factor of bird predation may act in concert with these “bottom-up” effects in producing the observed pattern of decreased herbivory in edge habitats.
 
 
Return to Student Project Page
Return to NSF-RET Homepage
 
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0442049.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















