






Publications and Presentations | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFPublications and Presentations 






Publications and Presentations














Publications and Presentations











FacultyPost-DocsTeachersStudentsPlantsInsectsMoleculesToolsPublications and PresentationsWant to Know MoreHow to get InvolvedResources for EducatorsNSF CRUI











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFPublications and Presentations 


















Project Publications 
Muth, N.Z., E.C. Kluger*, J.H. Levy*, M.J. Edwards and R.A. Niesenbaum. 2008. Increased per capita herbivory in the shade: necessity, feedback, or luxury consumption? Ecoscience, 15:182-188 (PDF).
*Skoczylas, D., R.A. Niesenbaum, and N.Z. Muth. 2007. Top-down control of herbivory by insectivorous avifauna. Acta Oecologica 32:337-342.
Edwards, M.E. and R.A. Niesenbaum. 2007. Eleven Polymorphic Microsattelite Loci in Lindera benzoin, Lauraceae. Molecular Ecology Notes 7:1302-1304.
Niesenbaum, R.A. and E.C. Kluger*. 2006. When Studying the Effects of Light on Herbivory, Should One Consider Temperature? The Case of Epimecis hortaria F. (Lepidoptera: Geometridae) Feeding on Lindera benzoin L. (Lauraceae). Environmental Entomology 35:600-606 (PDF)
Niesenbaum. R.A., J.F. Cahill, and C. Ingersoll. 2006. Light, Wind, and Touch Influence Leaf Chemistry, Growth, and Rates of Herbivory in Apocynum cannabinum (Apocynaceae) . International Journal of Plant Sciences 167:969-978.
 
 
Selected Project Presentations
Vodzak, Sarah. 2009. Using Absorbing Markov Chains to Model Caterpillar Populations Under Different Environmental Conditions. 11th Annual Nebraska Conference for Undergraduate Women in Mathematics, Lincoln, Nebraska
RA Niesenbaum, EH Mooney, EJ Tiedeken, and NZ Muth. 2008. Differential induced response to generalist and specialist herbivores by Lindera benzoin L. (Lauraceae) in sun and shade. Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting, Milwualkee, WS
Mooney, EH, EL Cole, and RA Niesenbaum. 2008. Geographic and environmental variation in herbivory among Lindera benzoin populations. Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting, Milwualkee, WS
Muth, N.Z. and R.A. Niesenbaum. 2006. Reduced herbivory of spicebush growing in proximity to black walnut: a case of associational resistance mediated by an allelopathic compound. Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting, Memphis, TN
*Skoczylas, D. and R.A. Niesenbaum. 2006. Top-down control of herbivory on Lindera benzoin by insectivorous avifauna. Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting, Memphis, TN
*Irwin, B, R.A. Niesenbaum and N.Z Muth. 2006. Volatile chemistry, rates of parasitism of herbivores, and rates of herbivory on Lindera benzoin vary with light environment. Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting, Memphis, TN
Niesenbaum, R.A., J.F. Cahill, C.M. Ingersoll, and C. Strollo*. 2005. The effects of light, wind, above ground plant competition, and experimenter manipulation on leaf chemistry and herbivory in Apocynum cannabinum. Joint Meeting of the Ecological Society of America and the International Ecological Association, Montreal, Canada
*James, K. and R.A. Niesenbaum. 2005. Estimating Herbivory: A Comparison of the Digital Quantitative Estimation and Subjective Classification of Leaf Area and How Best to Deal with Zero Inflated Data. Joint Meeting of the Ecological Society of America and the International Ecological Association, Montreal, Canada
Manuscripts in Preparation
Benjamin, G., K. James, N.Z. Muth, and R.A. Niesenbaum. Estimating Herbivory: A Comparison of the Digital Quantitative Estimation and Subjective Classification of Leaf Area.
*indicates student co-author






CRUI MC/NSF Home Page

 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















