






NSF Former Lab Members | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFNSF Former Lab Members 






NSF Former Lab Members














NSF Former Lab Members











FacultyPost-DocsTeachersStudentsPlantsInsectsMoleculesToolsPublications and PresentationsWant to Know MoreHow to get InvolvedResources for EducatorsNSF CRUI











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyPlant-Insect Interactions NSFNSF Former Lab Members 






















 Emily Kluger


Graduated 2004, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: The effects of light environment on rates of herbivory on Lindera benzoin (spicebush) by a geometrid larvae Currently a Ph.D. student at the University of Illinois




 Brian Tavernia


Graduated 2004, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Photosynthetic and water-use physiology of purple loosestrife in relation to invasiveness Currently a Ph.D. student at Tufts University




 Gail Morris


Graduated 2004, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Bumble-bee ecology and pollination behavior




 Matt Frye


Graduated 2004, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Do Juglans nigra (black walnut trees) protect Lindera benzoin (spicebush) from herbivores with juglones: A case for allelophyly? Currently a graduate student at the University of Delaware




 Jessica Hitinger


Graduated 2005, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Photosynthesis and herbivory: Do plants compensate?




 Christen Strollo


Graduated 2006, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Inducible cardenolide chemistry in Apocynum cannibinum (dogbane)




 Erica Nory


Graduated 2004, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Do volatile chemicals in Lindera benzoin (spicebush) leaves vary with light environment and do they defend against herbivory?




 Elizabeth Koniers


Graduated 2001, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Stored resources and below ground competition in Mirabilis Currently studying environmental law at George Washington University




 Lisa Kern


Graduated 2001, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: GIS map reprojection and vegetation analysis Formerly at the Smithsonian Conservation and Research Center's Spatial Analysis Lab




 Lori Haynes


Graduated 2001, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Long term studies of selfing and genetic load in Mirabilis jalapa and defensive chemistry in Lindera benzoin in relation to herbivory Currently a Ph.D. student at the University of Pennsylvania




 Krista McGuire


Graduated 2001, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Studies of cryptic incompatibility in Mirabilis jalapa Currently a Ph.D. student at the University of Michigan




 Janette Steets


Graduated 2001, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Use of genetic markers to study non-random mating in Mirabilis jalapa Currently a post-doctoral fellow at the University of Alaska after earning her Ph.D. at the University of Pittsburgh




 Diana Bharucha


Graduated 2003, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: How ethnicity influences definition and use of herbal medicines Currently a medical student at Drexel/Haneman




 Meghan Herz


Graduated 1999, worked with Dr. Richard Niesenbaum Project focus: Physiology and genetic of inbreeding depression in Mirabilis jalapa Currently a Ph.D. student at Cornell University










CRUI MC/NSF Home Page

 
 This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0442049. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















