






Elizabeth R. McCain | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyFaculty & StaffElizabeth R. McCain 






Faculty & Staff














Elizabeth R. McCain











Research ProgramsProvostFaculty Center for Teaching











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyFaculty & StaffElizabeth R. McCain 













Elizabeth R. McCain Professor New Science Building 120 484 664-3255 mccain@muhlenberg.edu
Education B.S. Biology, New College M.S. Marine Science, University of South Carolina Ph.D. Zoology, University of Texas
Courses Taught Principles of Biology II (BIO 151) Principles of Biology III labs (Bio 151) Concepts of Biology Developmental Biology (BIO 240) Histology (BIO 360) Scanning Electron Microscopy (BIO 423) Transmission Electron Microscopy (BIO 421) The Nature of Science, a First Year Seminar
Research Interests My primary interest is the early development of marine invertebrates but I have also worked with amphibians, chickens, and other types of invertebrates. I am primarily interested in how cells learn or acquire their final fate. The tools I use in the lab revolve around microscopy, with light and fluorescent compound microscopes and the electron microscope, both transmission (TEM) and scanning (SEM). My other research interests essentially follow those initiated by my students. I am a strong advocate of students developing their own research questions and, with my help, devising experiments to answer those questions in the laboratory.
Publications Cohen, Ross, John Schocken, Athanasios Kaldis, Konstantinos E. Vlachonasios, Amy T. Hark, and Elizabeth R. McCain. 2009. The histone acetyltransferase GCN5 affects the inflorescence meristem and stamen development in Arabidopsis. Planta 230: 1207-1221.
Elizabeth McCain. 2008. Poecilogony as a tool for understanding speciation: Early development of Streblospio benedicti and Streblospio gynobranchiata (Polychaeta:Spionidae). Invertebrate Reproduction & Development.  51(2): 91-101.
McCain, Elizabeth, Kay Grimnes, Cindy Trussell C. 2007.  When drug sales and science collide. National Center for Case Study Teaching in Science. http://www.sciencecases.org/vioxx_sales/vioxx_sales_notes.asp
McCain, Elizabeth and Jacqueline McLaughin J. 2007. Chicken embryonic heart lab. Library of Educational Annotated Developmental Biology Resources.
McCain, Elizabeth R. 2004. The case of Eric, Lou Gehrig’s disease and stem cell research. National Center for Case Study Teaching in Science. In Press.
McCain, Elizabeth R. and Jacqueline McLaughlin. 1998. The Development and Physiology of the Embryonic Chicken Heart. Proceedings of the 20th Workshop/Conference of the Association for Biology Laboratory Education. 20: 1-15.
McLaughlin, Jacqueline and McCain, Elizabeth R. 1997. In vivo and In vitro development of the chicken heart. Proceedings of the 19th Workshop/Conference of the Association for Biology Laboratory Education. 19: 331-332. Recent Student Presentations Grants Principle Investigator of NSF-CCLI grant, Muhlenberg College 2002 $240,000 matching funds grant allowed us to purchase computer and microscopy equipment for the Principles of Biology Labs. Links Axolotl Neurulation Video



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















