






Summer Research | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyResearchSummer Research 






Summer Research














Summer Research











Faculty Research ProgramsStudent Research ProgramSummer ResearchStudent Publications and PresentationsNSF Plant-Insect Interaction ResearchNSF BioInformatics Education ResearchOff-Site Opportunities











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyResearchSummer Research 












Summer Research
Many students engage in scientific research full time during the summer months, in collaboration with Muhlenberg faculty or mentors at other institutions. Each on-campus summer science research student is awarded an 8-10 week stipend supported by one of several internal or external grants. Many grants also provide funds for the purchase of supplies and/or small pieces of equipment to support each student’s research project. The College generously provides free dormitory housing and one course credit.
You can perform research on a part-time or full-time basis during the summer. In some cases, you may receive a stipend (often $3000 for ten weeks) and/or receive free housing from the College. Students who are interested in summer research may want to submit an application for an undergraduate summer grant from the Dean of the College for Academic Life. These competitive awards provide free housing and a summer stipend for research carried out in the laboratory of a department faculty member. There are several funding opportunities available through the Biology Department or Neuroscience Program, including the Vaughan Summer Research Grant, the Trainer Summer Research Grant, the Neuroscience Collaborative Research Grant, and funds from financial gifts made to the Biology Department and other science programs at the College to support student research. For these awards, be sure to begin talking to potential faculty mentors late in the preceding Fall semester. For application information for Departmental awards click here.
If you are interested in performing research, you should seek out faculty members who would be appropriate mentors for your project at least a half-semester before you want to do research. Faculty often fill their available summer research positions by February or March. You don't need to know exactly what project you want to work on, just some basic ideas of what kind of research interests you. Choose a faculty member with research interests that parallel your own. Your project may be suggested by your faculty member, emerge through conversations with him/her, or develop independently from participation in lab journal clubs. We encourage all students interested in research to read the research descriptions on individual faculty pages in order to find the most appropriate match.
Every fall, the summer research students participate in the Summer Research Poster Session. This event provides an opportunity for the students to present and discuss their research as they would at a scientific conference. The entire campus community and the presenters’ families are invited to attend.


 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















