






Institutional Review Board | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsProvostCommitteesInstitutional Review Board 






Institutional Review Board














Institutional Review Board











MembersFAQsPoliciesAppendices and FormsEthics and IRB Internet LinksDepartmental Review











Home
AcademicsProvostCommitteesInstitutional Review Board 











Muhlenberg College is committed to protecting the safety, welfare, rights and privacy of all persons who participate as subjects in research projects conducted under its auspices by faculty, staff and students. It is also committed to ensuring that the subjects of such research are fully aware of their rights and the protections available to them. In addition, the College is obligated by law to assure the federal government that such safeguards are being provided and implemented. These safeguards are derived from the following ethical principles, first articulated in the Belmont Report issued by the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research in 1979:
Respect for persons: recognition of the personal dignity and autonomy of individuals and special protection of those persons with diminished autonomy or particular vulnerabilities, including prisoners, children, those who are mentally or cognitively disabled, pregnant women or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons. Human subjects should enter into research voluntarily and with adequate information.
Beneficence: the obligation to protect persons from harm by maximizing anticipated benefits and minimizing possible risks. Possible risks to human subjects should be weighed against possible benefits to the subjects, as well as against the possible improvement of knowledge.
Justice: fairness in the distribution of research benefits and burdens. In selecting human subjects for research, researchers should ensure that no group of participants is either consistently selected to participate in research or consistently deprived of the opportunity to do so. When research participation is a course requirement or opportunity for extra credit, the prospective participant is given the choice of equitable alternative activities.
Research in which human beings participate as subjects conducted under the auspices of Muhlenberg College, by its faculty, students, and staff, is subject to review by the College's Institutional Review Board (IRB). The IRB is the body charged with reviewing, prior to its commencement, all research and experimental activities in which human beings participate as subjects as well as research by external researchers seeking to use Muhlenberg College students or personnel as research subjects.
Members for the fiscal year 2021 - 2022: Faculty and Lecturers serving on various committees for the current academic year are listed below. 



Robin Riley-Casey (ss)


Giancarlo Cuadra (s)




Kenneth Michniewicz (ss)



The IRB will review applications on a rolling basis. We are committed to completing reviews within a 2 week time frame during the academic semesters. On college breaks, please expect reviews to take a little more time by no longer than 4 weeks. 


















Contact Information

Office of the Provost









Email

provost's_office@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3134







Address

Muhlenberg College
Office of the Provost
College Center, 3rd Floor
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















