






2016: Muhlenberg students selected for Community Internship Program | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg students selected for Community Internship Program



This spring semester, five Muhlenberg students will take part in the Community Internship Program. 


	 Wednesday, December 14, 2016  10:53 AM

Community Engagement is pleased to continue their partnership with Air Products to help place student interns with non-profit organizations and schools in the Lehigh Valley. 
Students who participate in this program gain vital work experience, a stipend, useful knowledge about the non-profit sector and the invaluable experiences partnering with local communities. During this program, interns are also given the opportunity to meet for a non-credit course created to enhance their experiences of working with local communities. 
The Muhlenberg Career Center and Office of Multicultural Life also collaborate with the Office of Community Engagement as part of this program.
The selected students are as follows:
ARCH - Alexandria Korba
Casa Guadalupe - Aisha Kourouma
Community Bike Works - Gwen Kelly
Jefferson Elementary School - Hannah Nussbaum
Sixth Street Shelter - Rebecca Goodman
This program is designed to benefit both the non-profit organizations in the area and students who are in need of internship opportunities. There will be summer internship options available through this program for students to seek out starting on February 1. Students who are selected for the summer internships will receive a $3000 stipend.
“The Community Internship Program allows students to deeply engage with Muhlenberg's community partners in Allentown over the course of a semester/summer,” says Beth Halpern, director of community engagement at Muhlenberg. “Community partners and students accomplish mutually agreed upon goals ranging from database creation/completion to curriculum development and program implementation. The program allows for an intensive experience maximizing benefits for students and community members alike.”
Air Products is an international corporation that sells gas and chemicals for industrial use. Their goal is to develop strong, lasting relationships with their customers and communities based on human qualities: understanding their needs, doing business with integrity and honesty and demonstrating a passion for exceeding expectations.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















