






2016: Muhlenberg College announces agreement with Boston University School of Public Health | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg College announces agreement with Boston University School of Public Health


Collaboration will allow outstanding Muhlenberg students to pursue early graduate acceptance.


	 Friday, October 7, 2016  01:49 PM

Muhlenberg College today announced an agreement with the Boston University School of Public Health (BUSPH) that will enable its outstanding students to pursue early acceptance to the BUSPH master's program in public health, one of the top graduate programs for public health in the country.
The collaborative "Select Scholars Program" will allow Muhlenberg students who are public health majors or minors, in good academic and social standing and who meet specific academic criteria to apply to the BUSPH program as a junior. Muhlenberg faculty members will then review applications and make recommendations. Once recommended, students will apply to the BUSPH master's program through normal channels, albeit a full year earlier than peers at other undergraduate institutions.
"This is a wonderful opportunity for our top students in public health," said Chrysan Cronin, director of Muhlenberg's public health major. "By completing the graduate application process during their junior year, these students will be well-positioned to move into the next phase of their education, and eventually their careers."
While students who are accepted at the BUSPH will have to complete their senior year at Muhlenberg before beginning their graduate education, there will be short-term opportunities to get to know Boston University and research opportunities there, as well as the opportunity for a longer-term summer internship in Boston during the summer between their junior and senior years at Muhlenberg.
"We are extremely excited about this new partnership and to be working with such an outstanding program in public health at Muhlenberg," said Lisa Sullivan, associate dean of education at the BUSPH. "We look forward to welcoming Muhlenberg students into our graduate programs in public health, building on their undergraduate work and preparing them to be the next generation of public health leaders."
Muhlenberg is the first undergraduate institution to partner with the BUSPH for such a program.
Since 1976, Boston University's School of Public Health has been growing, innovating, discovering and launching the careers of some of the most accomplished and influential women and men in the field. Today it stands among a select group of public health graduate schools. U.S. News & World Report ranks Boston University SPH 10th in the nation.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















