






2016: Get to know the Class of 2020 | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Get to know the Class of 2020


Muhlenberg's newest students bring a wealth of experiences to campus


	 Friday, September 2, 2016  04:34 PM

The heat of pre-season is over for student-athletes. Pre-Orientation experiences left new students with great connections. The lines of cars loaded with belongings are long gone. First-Year Orientation Weekend is now just a happy memory.
For the Class of 2020, Muhlenberg is beginning to feel like home.
At the opening of the fall semester, the Muhlenberg community grew by 593 first-year students. Just like classes before them, the Class of 2020 brings with them diverse backgrounds and experiences that will continue to enhance the richness of the Muhlenberg experience.
This is the second most ethnically and internationally diverse class in the history of the College, with 18.2% of students ethnically and internationally diverse.

The class also boasts an all-time record for geographical diversity, with 30% from New Jersey; 22% from Pennsylvania; 18% from New York; 9% from New England; 7% from Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia and Delaware; 5% from the western part of the U.S.; 4% from outside the U.S.; 3% from the Midwest; and 2% from the southern part of the U.S.

The Class of 2020 has already excelled in the classroom, with 36% of them graduating in the top tenth of their high school classes. They will undoubtedly continue to excel academically during their time on campus.

While a large part of the Class of 2020 has yet to determine a potential major, the top degrees they are interested in include theatre, biology, business, psychology and neuroscience.
Members of the Class of 2020 have already joined their peers in making their marks outside the wall of a classroom.
In the arts sphere, one first-year co-wrote and acted in two short films that both received “Best of Boston” awards at the Boston 48-Hour Film Festival, while a classmate is a member of “Surge,” a hip-hop dance team that has performed with the Harlem Globetrotters, the Philadelphia Wings and others.
When it comes to the sciences, a member of the Class of 2020 has served as president of the Model World Health Organization, which has received thanks from the Ambassador from Kenya for their initiatives in Africa.
The incoming class has also excelled in media-related endeavors. One student is director and producer of a hometown television talk show with a focus on local, national and international political issues. Another has written and edited pieces for Ireland’s largest online newspaper.
Unsurprisingly, a number of first-year students have been heavily involved in social justice-related projects, a tradition that will surely continue and grow at Muhlenberg. One student is the founder of The Validation Project—now a worldwide organization dedicated to stopping bullying and building self-esteem among young people.  Another co-founded the iTold4 Project, which has now educated over 2,300 students on how to prevent hearing loss.
In J.K Rowling’s Harry Potter books, a series this class grew up reading, wand maker Mr. Ollivander tells the titular character “I think it is clear that we can expect great things from you.” The same can be said of the Class of 2020—we look forward to seeing all that you accomplish. Welcome to Muhlenberg.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















