






2016: Muhlenberg College ranks among nation's top liberal arts colleges according to U.S. News | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg College ranks among nation's top liberal arts colleges according to U.S. News


College moves up seven spots from last year to #65 among liberal arts colleges


	 Tuesday, September 13, 2016  08:12 AM

Muhlenberg College's strong first-year retention rate (92%) and small classes helped boost its U.S. News & World Report ranking seven spots, from #72 to #65 (tie), in the latest national rankings of liberal arts colleges released today.
"Our students enjoy truly life-altering undergraduate education experiences," said Muhlenberg College President John I. Williams, Jr. "Movement like this in such a prominent ranking helps more and more people throughout the U.S. and around the world discover why Muhlenberg College is one of the nation's very best places to learn."
The latest US News ranking reinforces other recent top rankings for Muhlenberg. Earlier this year, Princeton Review ranked Muhlenberg #1 for "Best College Theater" and #16 for "Best Campus Food."
The U.S. News National Liberal Arts Colleges rankings highlight colleges that emphasize undergraduate education and award at least half of their degrees in the arts and sciences. The magazine assesses such criteria as graduation and retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance, and alumni giving.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















