






2016: Muhlenberg recognized by Money magazine for its great value | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg recognized by Money magazine for its great value


Muhlenberg College is one of the top 100 colleges for value, according to Money in its third annual ranking of "The Best Colleges for Your Money."


	 Friday, July 15, 2016  02:40 PM

Muhlenberg came in at #87, along with other Pennsylvania colleges including Lafayette College, The University of Pennsylvania and Swarthmore College.
“This is welcome recognition of both our outstanding educational programs and the significant return on investment our students enjoy as they take on the world beyond our campus,” said Christopher Hooker-Haring, Muhlenberg’s vice president for enrollment.
Money used a methodology comprised of three factors to determine their results: a college’s quality of education, its affordability and its outcomes.
Muhlenberg’s affordability, high graduation rate and strong job placement were contributing factors to its positioning. Muhlenberg’s tuition for the 2015-2016 school year was under $46,000, 94% of students had jobs or were in graduate school within six months of graduation and the school’s graduation rate is over 85%.
In the recap of findings, Money editor Diane Harris wrote, “According to a new survey by Money and Barnes & Noble College, families care most that schools help students develop the critical-thinking skills needed to succeed in a complex world and prep graduates for fulfilling careers, not simply jobs with a high salary.”
Liberal arts colleges made strides on this list, in general. For the first time, a liberal arts school—Amherst College—made the top ten.
Muhlenberg was previously recognized by Money in 2015 as one of the top 50 liberal arts colleges in the country.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















