






Mission & Learning Goals | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceStudent ResourcesMission & Learning Goals 






Mission & Learning Goals
In the tradition of the liberal arts, Muhlenberg's Theatre & Dance Department doesn't just concern itself with training actors, dancers, and designers. We aim to create an environment in which actors, dancers, and designers become thinkers and artists.












Mission & Learning Goals












Mission & Learning Goals

Tickets

Theatre & Dance Mainstage

Ushering

Accessibility

Theatre Faculty/Staff Directory

Dance Faculty/Staff Directory













Home
Theatre & DanceStudent ResourcesMission & Learning Goals 



























          Mission
  









The Department of Theatre & Dance develops creative citizens who pursue multiple ways to know and articulate truths about the world through the study and practice of performance. The curriculum melds intensive studio training and substantive critical analysis in the liberal arts tradition.
The departmental production season affords further opportunities for embodied application of artmaking in the public arena. We aim to produce flexible, rigorous artist-thinkers who can contribute to the greater good. Our course offerings and productions embrace diverse aesthetic forms drawn from various performance techniques, historical eras, and cultural traditions.
Collaboration is our core value and the foundation of the program. Faculty, staff, and students join together to create a spirited department characterized by trust, personal responsibility, healthy risk-taking, and mutual respect. Ultimately, the department equips students with the intellectual, artistic, and interpersonal skills to comprehend and adapt to a changing world and in turn remake it as independent thinkers, citizens, and creators.






          Learning Goals
  








Departmental Curricular Learning Goals

Students should:

Investigate the functions and value of performances in human life by making performances and by studying them.
Create meaningful and vivid performances using a variety of generative artistic processes.
Analyze performances in cultural and historical context using a range of contemporary scholarly methods.
Integrate embodied and scholarly/analytic approaches to performance.
Make artistic choices informed by conceptual understanding and practical training.
Exhibit a rigorous work ethic grounded in a productive approach to collaboration.
Develop a personal yet self-reflective voice, expressed in artistic and scholarly/analytic modes.
Discern their individual contribution to the performing arts as producers, advocates, critics, and consumers of culture.
Write creatively and cogently about performances.
Cultivate an informed artistic point-of-view sharpened by the integration of knowledge about theatrical performance with insight derived from interdisciplinary connections within the broad liberal arts framework.











Want to Know More?

 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















