






LVAIC Study Abroad | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesMajors and MinorsLVAIC Study Abroad 






LVAIC Study Abroad














LVAIC Study Abroad











French & Francophone StudiesGerman Studies MinorItalian Studies MinorRussian Major/MinorSpanish Major/MinorLVAIC Study AbroadTeacher Certification











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesMajors and MinorsLVAIC Study Abroad 













LVAIC Summer Study Abroad Program
In cooperation with the Lehigh Valley Association of Independent Colleges (LVAIC), Muhlenberg students have the opportunity to participate in a summer study program abroad in German and Spanish. Each of the following programs offers a total cultural experience. Therefore, no partial credit is allowed. The classroom instruction is reinforced through tutorials and augmented by numerous cultural and social events, including visits and excursions to selected points of interest. A proficiency examination will determine the level at which a student will enroll. Summer programs in French and Italian are also available. Students interested in any of these programs should consult with the head of the department.
LVC GRE Elementary German Language & Culture Abroad LVC SPE Elementary Spanish Language & Culture Abroad
Intensive study of the fundamentals of German or Spanish with emphasis on speaking, listening and reading comprehension, as well as basic writing skills, supplemented by an introduction to major aspects of contemporary German or Spanish civilization.
LVC GRI Intermediate German Language & Culture Abroad LVC SPI Intermediate Spanish Language & Culture Abroad
Intensive practice of conversational German or Spanish, rapid review of basic grammar, the reading and analysis of moderately difficult texts, as well as the development of rudimentary writing skills, supplemented by the study of selected aspects of contemporary German or Spanish civilization.
LVC GRA Advanced German Language & Culture Abroad LVC SPA Advanced Spanish Language & Culture Abroad
Intensive practice in spoken and written German or Spanish aimed at providing the student with extensive proficiency of expression and the ability to discriminate linguistic usage. Emphasis on idiomatic expressions and an introduction to stylistics. Reading and analysis of more difficult texts. Supplemented by in-depth study of selected aspects of contemporary German or Spanish civilization.
LVAIC SEMESTER IN BONN
In cooperation with the Lehigh Valley Association of Independent Colleges (LVAIC), Muhlenberg students have the opportunity to participate in a spring semester study abroad program in Bonn, Germany. The program offers advanced students of German an integrated academic and cultural experience. The classroom instruction is reinforced through tutorials. Students interested in this program should consult with the head of the department.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















