






News: Dance Emerge 2019 | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceNews & NotesNews: Dance Emerge 2019 






News: Dance Emerge 2019













News: Dance Emerge 2019











News ArchiveTheatre & Dance Anti-Racism Action Plan











Home
Theatre & DanceNews & NotesNews: Dance Emerge 2019 






















'Dance Emerge dance concert showcasesinnovative work by student choreographers
Dance performance April 11-14 displays talentof seven young choreographers, 50+ dancers


Muhlenberg College dancers tell their stories through movement, as the Muhlenberg Theatre & Dance Department presents "Dance Emerge," a showcase for dance works created by emerging choreographers, April 11-14 in the college's intimate Studio Theatre, a black box performance space with seating on two sides of the space.
The concert will showcase seven student choreographers and more than 50 dancers from the department's dance program, which is among the most highly regarded programs of its kind. "Dance Emerge" features costume and lighting designs by the department's acclaimed professional staff.
Artistic Director Marcie Mamura says this year's program "highlights the creative processes of student choreographers as they artfully transform seeds of inspiration into original dance works."
"The movement cultivated by these talented choreographers explores an array of ideas from crystalline architectures, to synapse pathways and curious connections," Mamura says.
The seven original dances feature styles inspired by jazz, modern, and Gaga, the Israeli dance form created by Ohad Naharin. The choreographers draw inspiration from various sources including the idea of "people watching," stages of a relationship, and mental hesitation, among others. The dancers model various themes as diverse and complex as the concert's choreographers.
Choreographer Karlie Lynn Zabin '20 created a piece based on her exploration of her Jewish identity as well as her experiences in Israel. The piece blends the Israeli dance form of Gaga and modern, and the five dancers will unveil Zabin's identity as well as Israel's.
"My rehearsal process has been such a beautiful collaborative experience. Many of the conversations with the dancers have revolved around identity and what it means to be in a piece about going "home" or back to our roots," she expresses. "I hope the audience will see five strong women who are seeing both themselves and each other." 
Choreographer Matthew Guerrera '19 derives influence for his piece from his diagnosis of Dyslexia through a positive outlook.
"Since Dyslexia has become such a part of my life, I choose to look at it as something that makes me a stronger and better person instead of something inhibiting me. I am trying to portray the ways in which my brain feels in an embodied way through my dance," he says. "I am exploring the world of jazz with this piece and am excited to present a piece in a style that is often not explored at Muhlenberg."
"Dance Emerge" runs April 11-14 in the Studio Theatre, Trexler Pavilion for Theatre & Dance, Muhlenberg College, 2400 Chew St., Allentown.
Performances are Thursday and Friday, April 11-12, at 8 p.m.; Saturday, April 13, at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Sunday, April 14, at 2 p.m. Tickets are $15 for adults; $8 for patrons 17 and under; and $8 for students, faculty and staff of all LVAIC colleges.
For groups of 15 or more, tickets are $13. Tickets and information are available at 484-664-3333 or muhlenberg.edu/dance.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















