






2016: Muhlenberg Appoints VP of Student Affairs/Dean of Students | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg Appoints VP of Student Affairs/Dean of Students


Allison Gulati has been named vice president of student affairs and dean of students at Muhlenberg College. Gulati is currently the associate dean of students and director of strategic initiatives at Lehigh University.


	 Thursday, June 23, 2016  03:22 PM

At Lehigh, Gulati has held various positions—and gained increasing responsibilities—in student life since 2003. Prior to adding her duties of director of strategic initiatives, she was assistant director of residence life, assistant dean of students and director of student leadership development and associate dean of students.
“I am thrilled to announce that Allison Gulati will join the Muhlenberg community as the new vice president of student affairs and dean of students,” says Muhlenberg College President John I. Williams, Jr. “Allison is a proven executive leader in student affairs, and has a demonstrated record of success both in supporting greater diversity and inclusion and in building stronger bridges between student affairs and academic affairs. She is entirely committed to student success in ways that are central to Muhlenberg's mission.”
Gulati, who will begin her duties August 1, is a graduate of James Madison University. She received her Master's degree from the University of Georgia, where she also received the Outstanding Alumnae Award in 2009. She was chosen, after an extensive national search, with the assistance of the executive search firm Isaacson, Miller.
At Muhlenberg, Gulati will oversee an expansive portfolio including athletics, campus safety, community engagement, counseling services, dining services, Greek affairs, the health center, judicial affairs, multicultural life residential services, student activities, Seegers Union and Title IX. She replaces Karen R. Green, who retired after 10 years at the College.
“Muhlenberg College is a wonderful institution, and I have thoroughly enjoyed learning about its rich history and its unwavering commitment to a holistic learning experience for students,” Gulati says. “The faculty, staff and students I have met are dynamic and inspiring, and I am humbled by the opportunity to be part of this community and its exciting future.”
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















