






2016: Muhlenberg College Institute of Public Opinion earns top marks | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg College Institute of Public Opinion earns top marks


The Institute earned an A- rating, outscoring other Pennsylvania pollsters, including Franklin & Marshall College (B+).


	 Friday, June 3, 2016  01:40 PM

Pictured: Chris Borick, professor of political science and director of the Institute of Public Opinion, speaks with the students who help run the polling center.
Polling analysis and blogging website FiveThirthyEight analyzed 22 of the Institute’s polls, which included a 91% success rate in predicting political races. The ratings also cited Muhlenberg’s simple average error of 3.5. The complete rankings can be found on FiveThirtyEight.
The Institute was previously recognized by Nate Silver in 2014, ranking first among all colleges and universities in the nation and 10th overall.
The Muhlenberg College Institute of Public Opinion is a state of the art public opinion research center that conducts scientific based survey research projects of public policy and political issues throughout the Lehigh Valley and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As part of the college’s mission of providing students with preparation for socially useful and self-fulfilling careers, the Institute also undertakes projects in conjunction with community partners that examine contemporary issues relevant to the interests of the public and policy-makers.
Recent polls conducted by the Institute include a 2016 Pennsylvania Republican Presidential Primary Survey and a 2016 Pennsylvania Health Poll. 
The Institute has entered into long-standing partnerships with governmental, media and research organizations, including a series of environmental surveys with the University of Michigan’s Ford School of Public Policy that have been cited by international publishers such as The Guardian. Local partners include The Morning Call newspaper in Allentown and the marketing and consumer sciences company HCD research.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















