






2016: Martin Art Gallery hosts "Contemporaries' Art," April 4-30 | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Martin Art Gallery hosts "Contemporaries' Art," April 4-30


The exhibit features selected works from the Hudson Center for Contemporary Arts Residency Program (HVCCA).


	 Monday, April 4, 2016  09:26 AM

Contemporaries' ArtMartin Art Gallery: Galleria Space, April 4 - 30Opening reception: Wednesday April 6, 4:30 - 6:00 p.m.
"Contemporaries' Art" features works from the HVCCA residency program, organized by Xuewu Zheng. Participating artists are Xileng cao, Huairuo Guo, Jingjing Jia, Zhongjun Li, Chunjie Liu, Shuiyang Liu, Yong Liu, Jingdong Shen, baijun sun, Xiuhong Sun and Xuewu Zheng.
According to the HVCCA website, the residency program offers studio space, living accommodations and a stipend for artists concentrating in on-site studio work and discourse within a community. Program residents are selected based on merit and a displayed interest in public dialogue, and residencies last between two and four months.
The Martin Art Gallery is home to an extensive permanent collection more than 3000 items, including works by Albrecht Durer, Rembrandt van Rijn, Edward S. Curtis, Salvador Dali and Norman Rockwell. The Gallery proudly exhibit the creations of our own student artists each May with a Senior Art Exhibition in the main Gallery space. Muhlenberg enhances the Gallery’s year-round exhibition schedule with gallery talks, artist receptions and interdisciplinary programs. All exhibits and events are free and open to the public. The Gallery is open Tuesday-Saturday from 12:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. The Galleria Lobby, an adjacent exhibition space, is accessible daily from 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















