






2016: Alexandra Tendler '18 named recipient of St. Andrew's Society of Philadelphia Scholarship | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Alexandra Tendler '18 named recipient of St. Andrew's Society of Philadelphia Scholarship


The Muhlenberg sophomore received the prestigious McFarland Scholarship of $23,000 for a year of study at The University of Edinburgh in Scotland.


	 Wednesday, March 23, 2016  04:28 PM

The St. Andrew’s Society of Philadelphia Scholarship provides funds for a full year of academic study abroad and is open to students studying at colleges within 75 miles of Philadelphia. Nominees must rank in the top 25% of their class, and scholarship receipt guarantees admission to the University of St. Andrews, the University of Edinburgh, the University of Aberdeen or the University of Glasgow. Only five scholarships are issued per academic year.

Alexandra is an English Literatures & Writing and finance double major, a Cardinal Key society member, a peer tutor and a member of Muhlenberg's cross country and track & field teams. She found that she was able to draw inspiration from her academic disciplines for the essay required to complete the St. Andrew's scholarship application.
After speaking with Alec Marsh, professor of English, she decided to channel the author Robert Louis Stevenson, who himself was born in Edinburgh. Alexandra described Stevenson's Treasure Island as a metaphor for finding our own roadmaps to new adventures, challenges and experiences.
"It's one thing to visit a different country," says Alexandra. "But to live there is something completely new. I'm excited to meet new people and delve into the academics...it's such an amazing school I'll be going to."
Alexandra is the 11th Muhlenberg recipient of the St. Andrew's Society of Philadelphia Scholarship and only the fourth recipient of the McFarland award. The most recent Muhlenberg recipients were Nicholas Cunningham '17, Martin Lo Sasso ’15, Hannah Oros ’14 and Anne Cawley ’12.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















