






2016: Muhlenberg featured as a 2016 Princeton Review College That Pays You Back | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg featured as a 2016 Princeton Review College That Pays You Back


Muhlenberg is one of the nation's best colleges for students seeking a superb education with great career preparation and an affordable price, according to The Princeton Review.


	 Tuesday, February 2, 2016  04:15 PM

Muhlenberg was featured in the 2016 edition of The Princeton Review’s “Colleges That Pay You Back: The 200 Schools That Give You the Best Bang for Your Tuition.” School profiles for this book and its seven categories of ranking lists are available on the Princeton Review website.
In Muhlenberg’s profile, Princeton Review editors praise the school for its “strong academics” and professors who “are willing to help and listen, which significantly [increases] the learning experience.” Opportunities to pursue a variety of academic and extracurricular pursuits are also lauded.
According to The Princeton Review, students agree that Muhlenberg has “a wide variety of talented students,” the campus culture is “accepting and open” and students have the opportunity to try new clubs and activities.
The profile also notes that according to PayScale.com, 42% of graduates describe their careers as helping to improve society. Graduates note that Muhlenberg’s strong academics, combined with opportunities and support for career resources and internships, leave them well-prepared to enter any field.
The Princeton Review chose the schools based on return on investment (ROI) ratings it tallied for 650 schools last year. The ratings weighted 40 data points that covered everything from academics, cost and financial aid to graduation rates, student debt and alumni salaries and job satisfaction.
"We highly recommend Muhlenberg College, and all of our Colleges That Pay You Back schools. They stand out not only for their outstanding academics but also for their affordability via comparatively low sticker prices and /or generous financial aid to students with need – or both," said Robert Franek, The Princeton Review’s Senior VP/Publisher and lead author of the book. "Students at these colleges also have access to extraordinary career services programs from their freshman year on, plus a lifetime of alumni connections and post-grad support."
The Princeton Review is a leading tutoring, test prep and college admission services company. Every year, it helps millions of college- and graduate school-bound students achieve their education and career goals through online and in person courses delivered by a network of more than 4,000 teachers and tutors, online resources, and its more than 150 print and digital books published by Penguin Random House. The Princeton Review is headquartered in Natick, Mass. and is an operating business of Match Group.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















