






2016: Muhlenberg students combine dedication, savvy and ingenuity in annual Innovation Challenge | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg students combine dedication, savvy and ingenuity in annual Innovation Challenge


The competition encourages creative thinkers to develop an innovative idea that satisfies a particular market, social or environmental need while competing for cash prizes.


By:

 

  Marisa Rubin '17  


	 Wednesday, April 13, 2016  00:50 PM

The event is open to the public and will be held on Thursday April 14 in Muhlenberg College’s Event Space and Light Lounge from 6:00-9:00 p.m.
The Innovation Challenge is open to the entire student body through all majors and class years and is designed to appeal to students beyond business-related majors. This year’s participants hail from a diverse field of Muhlenberg’s academic departments, forming teams that will pitch their ideas to a panel of alumni, local business leaders and investors for a chance to start turning their idea into an innovative company of tomorrow.
During the semester students participated in workshops and worked with assigned mentors to create and refine their entrepreneurial idea. Participating teams submitted a business proposal, and the top candidates were assigned mentors and the opportunity to pitch for $1,000. All participants remain eligible to present their ideas for the audience choice awards in the "Idea Zone."
In the weeks leading up to the event, students worked to validate their ideas with potential customers, and some have even begun launching their businesses.
The challenge’s framework gives them motivation to bring together a business plan and a chance at winning cash prizes that they can use to help get their idea off the ground. Among this year’s teams are students working to appeal to market needs through apps, coloring books, online databases and more.
Rita Chesterton, director of the innovation & entrepreneurship program at Muhlenberg College, is organizing this year’s challenge.
“The Innovation Challenge requires students to draw from what they have learned from across the disciplines and to develop their own innovative business idea and six-minute pitch,” says Chesterton. “It’s hard enough to come up with an idea, but to be able to present your full idea in just six minutes that explains the value of your business proposition – that’s an even bigger challenge.”
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















