






2016: Baseball Wins Wild Home Opener | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Baseball Wins Wild Home Opener



The Dorney Park rollercoaster that is visible from Cedarcreek Field might have been a more appropriate setting for the Muhlenberg baseball team's 2016 home opener.


	 Friday, March 18, 2016  09:15 AM

The Mules (8-7) came back from six runs down to defeat Messiah, 12-11, on a home run by freshman Matt Riebesell in the bottom of the eighth.Muhlenberg, which had lost five in a row - two by one run, two by two runs and one that they led going into the late innings - got exactly the type of win it needed in a wild game that featured 23 runs on 24 hits, including three home runs.
The Mules led 1-0 after only three batters, but this was not going to be an easy win. The Falcons (6-8) scored four in the third, three in the fourth and two in the fifth to open up a 9-3 lead.Back-to-back singles by junior John Icaza and senior Andrew Rava to open the bottom of the fifth set the table for a big inning. After a walk, Riebesell was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded to force in a run. After two more runs came in on infield errors, junior Nick Lucas came up as a pinch-hitter and cranked the first pitch over the fence in left for a go-ahead grand slam. It was first career home run for Lucas.Messiah reclaimed the lead with two runs in the top of the sixth. Rava led off the bottom of the sixth with a single and came around to score the tying run on a two-out hit by freshman Jon Capra.The score was still 11-11 when the Falcons loaded the bases with one out in the top of the eighth. Junior Christopher Bunero came in and struck out the next two batters on six pitches to preserve the tie.Riebesell  broke the tie with his first career home run two batters later.Bunero finished off the game by striking out the side in the ninth to earn his second win of the season.Icaza went 4-for-5 to raise his team-leading batting average to .466. His fifth-inning single was the 100th hit of his career. Rava had three hits and Riebesell drove in three runs.
For more about Athletics, please visit muhlenbergsports.com. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















