






2016: Dean of Students Karen Green announces retirement | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Dean of Students Karen Green announces retirement


Karen Green, vice president for student affairs and dean of students at Muhlenberg College, announced that she will retire on May 31 of this year, completing ten years of service at Muhlenberg College and capping more than 35 years in student affairs.


	 Friday, February 5, 2016  03:20 PM

“My time at 'Berg has been a ten-year love affair,” said Green. “It was a difficult decision because I have had such a full, rich and rewarding experience with the entire Muhlenberg community.”
Green joined Muhlenberg College in June 2006, with 26 years of student affairs experience already under her belt. She had previously served as dean of students at Wells College in Aurora, N.Y.
In her first year at Muhlenberg, Green founded Muhlenberg’s Gospel Choir, “Rejoice.” She has regularly held weekly lunches with student leaders and has committed her time to important causes, such as the college committee for campus life, the college committee for fitness and athletics, multicultural counsel, multicultural advisory board and the senior year experience.
Green is a 1986 graduate of Agnes Scott College and earned a M. Div. from the Candler School of Theology of Emory University in 1997.
In an email to the campus community announcing Green’s retirement, President John I. Williams, Jr. thanked Green for her service to Muhlenberg, and noted that the College will engage in a national search for Green’s replacement this semester.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















