






2016: Muhlenberg College Wescoe School of Continuing Education Named a 2016 Military Friendly School | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg College Wescoe School of Continuing Education Named a 2016 Military Friendly School


Muhlenberg College Wescoe School of Continuing Education earns distinction from Military FriendlyÂ®.


	 Tuesday, February 23, 2016  03:10 PM

Military Friendly® is the military ratings division of Victory Media, a service-disabled, veteran-owned business. Military Friendly® rates companies and colleges on their programs to recruit and retain military veterans as employees and students. Military Friendly® is a federally trademarked term, created in 2003 by Victory Media.
Daniel Nichols, chief product officer of Victory Media and a U.S. Navy Reserve veteran adds, “Those earning the 2016 Military Friendly® designation demonstrate a strong connection between classroom learning and career development. They’re moving the needle beyond ‘why recruit military’ to translating military competencies into training and positive employment after graduation.
This is the sixth time the Wescoe School has earned this designation since the Military Friendly Program began in 2003. In 2013, Muhlenberg was named the nation's best liberal arts college for veterans by U.S. News and World Report. The College has been a participant in the Yellow Ribbon Program since its inception in 2009.
Muhlenberg College Wescoe School of Continuing Education is the adult education division for Muhlenberg College. Educating adult students since 1910, the Wescoe School is located in West Allentown, PA. The Wescoe School offers more than 25 programs of study including Accelerated Degrees and Certificates, Traditional Liberal Arts Degrees, Major Certificates, and Teacher Certification. For more information about the Wescoe School, please call 484-664-3300, email wescoe@muhlenberg.edu or visit their website.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















