






2013: Three football players earn All-ECAC honors  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Three football players earn All-ECAC honors 


Three members of the Muhlenberg football team were named to the ECAC South All-Star teams.


	 Thursday, December 19, 2013  02:59 PM





Junior tight end Michael Long received first-team honors, while junior defensive end Greg DeLade and sophomore offensive tackle Bryan Auvil were named to the second team.





The first-team selection is the third for Long, who also received that laurel on the Centennial Conference and D3football.com South Region squads. The junior caught 47 passes – the second-most ever by a Muhlenberg tight end – for 525 yards and four touchdowns in 2013.
Long (above right) ranked eighth among Division III tight ends in receptions, and he set a CC record for the position with 11 grabs in a victory over Juniata. He was also a key contributor on special teams, returning a blocked field goal for a touchdown against McDaniel and blocking one himself against rival Moravian. Long will enter his senior season just 11 catches shy of the school record for tight ends.
DeLade (above center), a first-team All-CC selection, was third in the conference with 17½ tackles for loss (tied for 22nd in Division III), including a team-high 7½ sacks, good for fourth in the CC. He also had four pass breakups, two forced fumbles and a fumble recovery. With DeLade as its top playmaker, the Mules’ defense allowed just 14.5 points per game, good for 17th in the nation.
Auvil (above left) was the first Muhlenberg offensive lineman to make the All-CC first team as a sophomore since 2006, and he is the second Mule sophomore in as many years to garner an All-ECAC nod. Auvil helped anchor a line that paved the way for the Muhlenberg offense to average more than 34 points and 400 yards of offense per game. Twice this season, the Mules possessed the ball for more than 39 minutes and ran more than 90 plays, including a school-record 97 at Juniata. Click here for the complete ECAC South All-Star teams.













 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















