






2013: Pulitzer Prize-Winning Poet Kay Ryan Joins Living Writers Series | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Pulitzer Prize-Winning Poet Kay Ryan Joins Living Writers Series


Author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning collection The Best of It: New and Selected Poems, will give a reading at Muhlenberg College on October 21, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.


	 Friday, October 18, 2013  09:52 AM

This event, part of the College’s Living Writers series  is free and open to the public.
Ryan, United States Poet Laureate from 2008-2010 and 2011 Pulitzer Prize winner, has published several collections of poetry, including The Niagara River, Say Uncle, Elephant Rocks,  Flamingo Watching (finalist for both the Lamont Poetry Selection and the Lenore Marshall Prize), Strangely Marked Metal, and Dragon Acts to Dragon Ends (1983).
Her most recent collection, The Best of It: New and Selected Poems, was nominated for the 2010 National Book Critics Circle Award and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in April, 2011.
In addition to the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, Ryan has been awarded the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize, a Guggenheim fellowship, an Ingram Merrill Award, a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Union League Poetry Prize, the Maurice English Poetry Award and four Pushcart Prizes. Her work has been selected four times for The Best American Poetry and was included in The Best of the Best American Poetry 1988-1997. In 2013, she was the recipient of the Fred Cody Award for Lifetime Achievement in Community and Literature.
Ryan's poems and essays have appeared in The New Yorker, The Atlantic, Poetry, The Yale Review, Paris Review, The American Scholar, The Threepenny Review and Parnassus, among other journals and anthologies.
Living Writers, established in 1994, is a course offered once every three years that brings six established and emerging writers to Muhlenberg College. The students read their recent works and then interact with the authors directly as they visit campus for a day. The writers come to class, have lunch with students and then give a public reading of their work in the evening.
Future readings will be given by writers Terrance Hayes (11/4), and Chris Ware (11/18).












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















