






2013: 'New Voices' world premiere festival at Muhlenberg | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











'New Voices' world premiere festival at Muhlenberg


A festival of world premiere one-act plays, Muhlenberg's 'New Voices,' spotlights talent of emerging playwrights


	 Monday, September 16, 2013  03:59 PM

From the minds of four emerging playwrights comes Muhlenberg College's "New Voices," an evening of world premiere theater that includes three short plays and one original musical.
"This season, four excellent plays promise an evening of entertainment and deep psychological engagement," says Matthew Moore, Muhlenberg faculty member and the artistic director for the production.
"New Voices" plays Oct. 2-6 on Muhlenberg's Studio Theatre stage.
In "Sinternet! The Musical," a college professor sells his soul to the devil in exchange for the destruction of the internet. Josh Shapiro '13 wrote the book and lyrics, with music by Jakeim Hart '16 and Richie Kormos '16. Moore directs the play, with choreography by Meredith Testa '14.
In "Restroom Rehearsal," Jeremy Russial '13 explores the idea of what it means to be honest—in the women's restroom. Jeremy Borut '14 directs. Pricking," by Eliana Sagarin '14, tells the story of three young people trying to cope with feelings they can't understand in the wake of their friend's death. Jenna Spiwack '14 directs. And in "Superhuman," by Zachary Shery '14, four people endowed with extraordinary powers struggle to find their place in the world. Alyssa Trombitas '14 directs.
"The pieces speak greatly to the voices of a maturing generation," Spiwack says. "But I think everyone will be able to find a moment that holds true to their experience at any age, and that's what I think makes the experience so powerful."
The New Voices Playwright's Festival is presented every other year as a part of the Muhlenberg Theatre & Dance Mainstage season. The festival provides emerging young playwrights the opportunity to showcase their work in a collaborative and intimate environment. It also offers a rare opportunity for audiences to see the work of the next generation of up-and-coming theater artists.
"I am proud to facilitate the performance of these important student works," Moore says. "The 'New Voices' festival represents this department's dedication to providing students with professional experience. For the playwrights, this is a unique opportunity to develop a work and see it though from conception to staging."
Muhlenberg College is a liberal arts college of more than 2,200 students in Allentown, Pa. The college offers Bachelor of Arts degrees in theater and dance. The Princeton Review has ranked Muhlenberg's theater program as in the top twelve in the nation for the past seven years, and Fiske Guide to Colleges lists both the theater and dance programs among the top small college programs in the United States. Muhlenberg is one of only eight colleges to be listed in Fiske for both theater and dance.
Performances of "New Voices" are Oct. 2-6: Wednesday through Friday, Oct. 2-4, at 8 p.m.; Saturday, Oct. 5, at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Sunday, Oct. 6 at 2 p.m. Tickets are $15 for adults and $8 for students. Performances are in the Studio Theatre, Trexler Pavilion for Theatre and Dance, Muhlenberg College, 2400 Chew St., Allentown. For mature audiences.>












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















