






2013: Center for Ethics Announces Fall  Programming: Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Center for Ethics Announces Fall  Programming: Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics


A year-long series of special events and thematic lectures that aims to develop a comprehensive sexual ethics for the campus community. 


	 Tuesday, September 3, 2013  04:14 PM

Through public talks and discussions, this theme will build an ethical conversation centered on interpersonal sexual behavior as well as the political, scientific, religious, aesthetic and legal forces that shape the permissibility and impermissibility of sexual acts. This programming theme will explore how culture, race, gender, class, technology and language can simultaneously constrain and create greater opportunities for sexual acts, interpersonal intimacy and pleasure-seeking.
Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.  Center for Ethics programs are free and open to all members of the Muhlenberg campus and the local community. For more information on the series, visit the Center for Ethics site.
Fall programs sponsored by the Center for Ethics will include:
Campus Forum:How Should We Talk About Sex at Muhlenberg? Tues., 9/10 • 7:30 p.m. • Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Muhlenberg faculty and administrators will discuss the concept of sex, ethics, and pleasure politics from various perspectives.  Panel moderated by Lanethea Mathews, (associate professor of political science), and features Mel Ferrara '15, Corey Goff (director of athletics), Randy Helm (President of the College), Robin Riley-Casey (director of multicultural life) and Alan Tjeltveit (Professor of psychology).
Talk by Joan BertinTitle TBAWed., October 23 • 7:00 p.m. • Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Bertin, the Executive Director of the National Coalition Against Censorship, addresses the history of the First Amendment, censorship, restrictions of sexually explicit speech, child pornography, political speech, government secrecy, broadcast decency and censorship of science and sex education.  Co-sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program.
Talk by Dorothy Roberts:Race, Gender, and Reproductive Technologies: The New BiopoliticsTues., 11/29 • 7 p.m. • Event Space, Seegers Union
Roberts, the George A. Weiss University Professor of Law and Sociology and the Raymond Pace and Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander Professor of Civil Rights at the University of Pennsylvania, will address issues of biopower, race, and gender; health disparities among racial minorities; sexuality and law; and socioeconomic regulation of sexual health.
Talk by Anne Fausto-Sterling:Title TBATues., 11/5 • 7:30 p.m. • Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Anne Fausto-Sterling, Nancy Duke Lewis Professor of Biology and Women’s Studies at Brown University, will discuss the scientific efforts to study sexual behavior, argue for the scientific construction of sexuality, and discuss a critical re-appraisal of dualisms that drive scientific investigation (sex/gender, nature/nurture, real/constructed) Her scholarly foci are dynamic systems theory; biology of sexuality and gender; developmental biology; and sex-related differences in infants and toddlers.
Talk by E. Patrick JohnsonSweet TeaTues., 11/12 • 7:30 p.m. • Empie Theater, Center for the Arts
E. Patrick Johnson, Carlos Montezuma Professor of Performance Studies and African-American Studies at Northwestern University, will discuss first-person ethnographic performance, documentary theatre, and race, gender, and sexuality in performance. He may discuss his recent publication Sweet Tea: Black Gay Men of the South; Black Queer Studies: A Critical Anthology. This event is co-sponsored by Theatre and Dance.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















