






2013: Center for Ethics Events Open with Panel Discussion | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Center for Ethics Events Open with Panel Discussion


The Center for Ethics will kick off their fall programming with a campus forum, "How Should We Talk About Sex at Muhlenberg," on Tuesday, September 10, at 7:30 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.


	 Friday, September 6, 2013  08:25 AM

Muhlenberg faculty, students and administrators, including the College’s President Randy Helm, will discuss the concept of sex, ethics, and pleasure politics from various perspectives.  This event is free and open to the public, and provides a framework for the rest of the programming for the Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics series.
Although sexual activity is a central part of socialization and identity formation, sexual behavior is generally considered a private matter and is seldom examined critically in the public sphere. Universities are no exception; college students - regardless of whether they choose to have sex - are immersed in a campus culture in which ‘private’ sexual beliefs and behaviors shape the ‘public’ undergraduate social experience, and yet the uncritical attitudes that shape these beliefs and behaviors are rarely interrogated or considered within an ethical frame.
The forum will be moderated by Lanethea Matthews, associate professor of political science, and will feature: student Mel Ferrara '15; Corey Goff, director of athletics; President Helm; Robin Riley-Casey, director of multicultural life; and Alan Tjeltveit, Professor of psychology.
This forum aims to utilize a variety of perspectives to begin exploring critical questions such as: How do differing moral, political and sociological attitudes toward sexuality shape our ethics? How do these attitudes enrich or inhibit the possibility of sexual pleasure? How do attitudes about pleasure, the body, identity and individuality define what sorts of sexual activity will be considered permissible or impermissible? Is pleasure something that we ought to pursue and promote? What is our ethical responsibility to the pleasure of others? How might a comprehensive sexual ethics cause us to rethink our understanding of justice and interpersonal responsibility?
For more information, visit the Center for Ethics online.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















