






2013: Muhlenberg sets another application record; registers all-time high in Multicultural admissions | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Muhlenberg sets another application record; registers all-time high in Multicultural admissions


Muhlenberg College has set application records for the upcoming academic year. The College will welcome 582 first-year students this fall, including a record 14.8 percent multicultural students.


	 Friday, July 19, 2013  11:24 AM

For the second consecutive year, Muhlenberg College has received more than 5,000 applications for freshmen admission. A total of 582 first-year students are currently enrolled for the fall semester. The freshman class also includes 14.8 percent multicultural students, another record at Muhlenberg.
The College received a record 5,151applications, a third consecutive record large total. This year’s total is up from 5,023applications last year and up from 4,877 applications two years ago.
“We are particularly excited about the diversity, the energy and the academic quality of this class,” said Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Christopher Hooker-Haring. “This year’s results are a strong endorsement of the strength of the Muhlenberg experience.”
For the past 14 years, the College has admitted fewer than 50 percent of its applicants and only 46 percent were admitted for the current first year class.  More than 45 percent of the ranked applicants are in the top 10 percent of their high school class.
The spectacular new Wood Dining Commons, a new science building, two new residence halls and several new academic programs over the past few years have fueled much of the increased interest, according to Hooker-Haring.  But, he notes that “student interest continues to be driven by our enthusiastic and energetic campus climate, a strong sense of community, and the quality of the academic and social experiences.”
The last four incoming classes have exceeded 10 percent multicultural students.  Geographic diversity is also expanding as California has emerged as an increasingly important feeder state in recent years.  
“Diversity in all of its forms continues to be an important priority for us,” said Hooker-Haring.  “This is a work in progress, and we continue to work at it very hard.”
Hooker-Haring notes that the Class of 2017 also will be “the most expensive class” in Muhlenberg history.
“The financial aid needs continue to increase in this difficult economy,” he said.  “We are committed to doing all we can to help deserving students and their families afford our brand of highly personalized, highly participatory education.”  More than 80 percent of the current student body receives some form of financial assistance.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















