






2013: 'Berg Featured in the Princeton Review Book, "The Best 378 Colleges" - 2014 Edition | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











'Berg Featured in the Princeton Review Book, "The Best 378 Colleges" - 2014 Edition


Muhlenberg College is one of the nation's best institutions for undergraduate education, according to The Princeton Review.


	 Tuesday, August 6, 2013  01:55 PM

Muhlenberg College is one of the nation's best institutions for undergraduate education, according to The Princeton Review –  and the department of theatre and dance continues to be a nationally top-ranked leader in the discipline, ranking eleventh in the country.
The education services company features the school in the new 2014 edition of its annual college guide, “The Best 378 Colleges” (Random House / Princeton Review, $23.99, August 6, 2013).
Only about 15% of America’s 2,500 four-year colleges and only four colleges outside the U.S.A. are profiled in the book, which is The Princeton Review's flagship college guide. It includes detailed profiles of the colleges with rating scores for all schools in eight categories, plus ranking lists of top 20 schools in the book in 62 categories based on The Princeton Review's surveys of 126,000 students attending the colleges.
In its profile on Muhlenberg, The Princeton Review praises it for its “friendly, tight-knit community” and quotes extensively from students the Company surveyed for the book.  Among their comments: “students fit in very well with all types of groups since our school is so accepting;” the College “definitely offers a rich amount of courses that will prepare you for your future and open your mind to possibilities;” and it has “many resources to help you with a variety of situations that may arise.”  Professors are regarded as approachable which “provides for an engaging classroom environment that lets students push past the direct facts of the material and learn more about what the material means for the world.”
The Princeton Review's school profiles and ranking lists in "The Best 378 Colleges" are posted at PrincetonReview.com.
"The Best 378 Colleges" is the 22nd edition of The Princeton Review's annual "Best Colleges" book.  It is one of 150 Princeton Review books published by Random House in a line that also includes test-prep guides for the ACT, SAT, SAT Subject Tests, and AP exams, plus "The Complete Book of Colleges," and "Paying for College Without Going Broke."
The Princeton Review (www.PrincetonReview.com) is an education services company known for its test-prep courses, tutoring, books, and other student resources. Headquartered in Framingham, Mass., the Company is not affiliated with Princeton University.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg College is a private, highly selective, liberal arts college affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















