






2013: Muhlenberg Named a Top 15 College  for Return on Investment | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Muhlenberg Named a Top 15 College  for Return on Investment


Muhlenberg College has been ranked a top college in Pennsylvania for return on investment by AffordableCollegesOnline.org.


	 Tuesday, July 30, 2013  03:58 PM

AC Online recently launched a new ranking, "AC Online: Highest Return on Investment Colleges in Pennsylvania," which identifies the 81 colleges in Pennsylvania where degrees pay off the most.
Muhlenberg was ranked 13th in the state, based on return on investment, and was identified as one of the top 15 colleges where graduates enjoy the largest earnings gap between non-degree holders over 30 years.
"These are important lists for prospective students to consider," says AC Online founder Dan Schuessler. "We've sifted through comprehensive data sources to find colleges and universities in Pennsylvania that offer a high quality education with consistent, long-term payoffs in the workplace."
The colleges in the list were compiled based on the criteria of being a fully accredited four year degree-granting institution, either public or private. Students who graduate from these colleges earn more over their lifetimes, on average, than graduates from other Pennsylvania institutions.
This study acknowledges Muhlenberg as one of the top colleges where graduates will enjoy the benefits of investing in their degree in the years after graduation. The results of this quantitative study demonstrate the quality of a Muhlenberg education which is comparably affordable based on the return Muhlenberg graduates will receive.
Affordable Colleges Online provides students with information about affordable higher education options. The website offers financial aid videos, expert advice, and cost savings ideas. AC Online is a trusted resource for college stats and rankings. Most recently the site launched a feature that provides students with a categorized directory of free online introductory, or "101", classes from several top named U.S. universities such as MIT, Michigan and U.C. Berkeley.
To see the full list, visit http://www.affordablecollegesonline.org/online-colleges/pennsylvania/.  












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















