






2013: Finley named head cross country coach | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Finley named head cross country coach


Steve Finley, a high school state champion in cross country and two-time Division I All-American in track, hired as head cross country coach. 


	 Tuesday, July 23, 2013  10:37 AM

Bicoastal steeplechase All-American Steve Finley was hired as Muhlenberg’s head coach of cross country. He also will be an assistant with the track and field program. 
Finley is a 2010 graduate of the University of Virginia, where he was a two-time Atlantic Coast Conference runner-up in the steeplechase. As a senior, he finished 11th in the event at the NCAA Championships to earn All-America honors.
While at Virginia, Finley also ran on the first-place 4x800 relay team at the Penn Relays Championship of America and the cross country team that won the 2008 ACC championship.
After graduating from Virginia, Finley transferred to the University of Oregon to take graduate classes with one year of athletic eligibility remaining. As a Duck in 2011, he won the steeplechase at the Pac-10 Championships and posted the top collegiate time of the year (8:36.93). At the NCAA Championships, he finished 13th to earn All-America honors for the second straight year.
Finley qualified for the USA Track & Field Championships in the steeple three consecutive years from 2009 to 2011, advancing to the final and placing 13th in 2011.
Finley competed as an athlete for Oregon Track Club Elite following his college career, training with an international group of professional athletes. He also served as a volunteer operations assistant for the Club, working with national-, world- and Olympic-class athletes and coaches on a daily basis.
For the past two years, Finley was a volunteer recruiting assistant at Track Town USA In Eugene, Ore., developing and implementing a recruiting plan for the Oregon Track Club under the guidance of 12-time NCAA Division I national championship coach Vin Lananna.
Finley attended Palatine (Ill.) High School, where he was the 2005 state champion in cross country and placed 33rd at the Foot Locker national championships in San Diego.
Finley, whose father Doug Finley is an assistant cross country and track coach at Muhlenberg, inherits a cross country program that has sent at least one runner to the NCAA Division III Championships in each of the last eight years.
For the latest in sports, visit the Athletics website
                












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















