






2013: Muhlenberg College and FHI360 Announce Relaunch of Youth Media Reporter Journal | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Muhlenberg College and FHI360 Announce Relaunch of Youth Media Reporter Journal


Muhlenberg College and FHI360 are pleased to announce the renewal of the Youth Media Reporter (YMR), the only professional journal dedicated to the youth media field.


	 Tuesday, May 28, 2013  09:58 AM

Muhlenberg College and FHI360 are pleased to announce the renewal of the Youth Media Reporter (YMR), the only professional journal dedicated to the youth media field.  YMR will be relaunched at Muhlenberg under the management of Lora Taub-Pervizpour and the HYPE Leadership Team.  Taub-Pervizpour is associate professor and chair of the department of media and communication at Muhlenberg College, and co-directs with Jenna Azar, the HYPE youth media program.  “YMR’s revival is vital at a time when rapid shifts in technology and expectations in the new landscape of careers for the next generation take form,” stated former YMR manager Ingrid Dahl, Director of Next Gen Programs at the Bay Area Video Coalition.
Students enrolled in Azar and Taub-Pervizpour’s “Youth Media” course will have opportunities to connect their academic studies of the field to hands-on activities supporting the production of YMR.  “That YMR will be led by a team of students at Muhlenberg College ensures that the journal’s evolution will be in the best of hands – inquisitive minds, investigative hopes, determined best practices, and the finger on the pulse of change. Having YMR in the hands of the next generation—I couldn’t ask for a better home for the field’s increasing visibility and credibility,” Dahl states.
YMR was incubated at The Open Society Institute as a professional publication to document best practices in the youth media field.  In 2006, the Academy for Educational Development became the new managers of YMR under the leadership of Dahl and the Youth Engagement Team. During their tenure, the journal engaged a 12 person peer review board, carried 2,000 online subscribers, launched six multimedia web issues per year and released an annual bound version including an academically inclined special features section.
“We are excited to steward this timely effort to reactivate YMR’s leadership and presence in the evolving youth media field.  Like so many practitioners, educators and scholars in the a field, we have felt its absence,” said Taub-Pervizpour, adding that “access to YMR was critical to my early work in youth media and lessons learned from the reports published in YMR have contributed to HYPE’s success.”
“HYPE is about valuing youth voices,” states Azar.  “And YMR provides a space for documenting critical insights from the many programs across diverse communities that share this commitment to valuing and supporting young people as media makers, storytellers, and advocates.”
For information about the Youth Media Reporter, contact ltaub@muhlenberg.edu, and for information about HYPE, contact jazar@muhlenberg.edu.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















