






Signature Events | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeGetting InvolvedCommunity EngagementEngagement OpportunitiesSignature Events 






Signature Events














Signature Events











About UsEngagement OpportunitiesVoter RegistrationResourcesCommunity Engaged ScholarshipThe Archive











Home
Student LifeGetting InvolvedCommunity EngagementEngagement OpportunitiesSignature Events 












These events & programs are sponsored through the Office of Community Engagement. They are annual events which mobilize large groups of student volunteers. 
 

Jefferson Field Day
Muhlenberg College partnered with Allentown's Jefferson Elementary School in 1991 to encourage the academic persistence and achievement of Jefferson students and enhance the education of Muhlenberg students. The partnership extends from teachers, students and parents at Jefferson to Muhlenberg faculty, staff and students, and Field Day was the first of these relationships. Every spring over 600 Jefferson students travel to Muhlenberg for their annual Field Day. Each class of Jefferson kids rotates through 8 different stations where Muhlenberg students run physical fitness activities and get to know the children. Field Day is a favorite day of the year for both Muhlenberg and Jefferson students. As one third grader states: "I want to go to Muhlenberg when I grow up."

 






 
Pinebrook-Family Answers Winter Spectacular
Each year Muhlenberg College community members purchase requested gifts for local children who are in the foster care system. The families all come together at the College for an evening of fun activities and connection with one another. In 2019 this relationship expanded to include our partners at South Mountain Middle School for the first time!









Fall Festival
This free festival creates community connections for all on and off campus communities each October. Pumpkin painting, performances, crafts and a hayride around campus allow for fun for all ages for all in attendance.

 







College Connect
Approximately 8 Fridays per year the College hosts 3rd, 4th, or 8th grade students from local partner schools on campus for an engaging afternoon of activities on a college campus. Science, art, physical activities and teamwork are explored as the kids engage with Muhlenberg students, faculty and staff and dream big about the future.










Dream to Read
The Muhlenberg basketball teams visits Jefferson Elementary in early January to read to the first graders and reinforce lessons of equity and inclusion in the stories.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















