






2013: 'Berg's Oldest Residence Hall Undergoes Renovations | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











'Berg's Oldest Residence Hall Undergoes Renovations


East Hall, dedicated in 1903, will undergo major renovations, and feature a 13,000 square foot addition


	 Friday, April 5, 2013  09:17 AM

The addition will accommodate more students, provide handicapped accessible bedrooms and bathrooms, as well as common areas for students to study and socialize, kitchen and dining areas for informal gatherings and laundry facilities.
"At Muhlenberg, we don't believe in rushing into things.  But after a century, it's probably time for a major overhaul of this campus landmark," said President Randy Helm.  “We believe we've got a plan that will preserve its quirky charm while upgrading it to contemporary standards.
East Hall is a cornerstone of the Muhlenberg campus and its oldest residence hall.  A striking example of the Collegiate Gothic style, East was considered luxurious and cutting-edge among college dormitories when first built.  While ongoing restoration and maintenance on the building’s exterior have been consistent, no major renovations have been done since an electrical upgrade in 1995.
“It is my honor and pleasure to be on the team tasked with returning East Hall to its original splendor, maintaining its unique charm and character,” said David Rabold, capital projects manager.  “Respecting the integrity of the building while enhancing its support of our living and learning programs for student life is a challenge worth undertaking.
Students love East Hall’s quaint aesthetic, but the building interior requires a complete renovation of interior walls and floors, plumbing, electrical and air-handling systems, energy-saving control systems, technology and an elevator. All rooms in the renovated East Hall will also have individual controls for heat and air-conditioning.
The architectural integrity of the building will be preserved by maintaining the original fireplaces, the eclectic spirit of the uniquely individual rooms and the return of the original cupolas atop the south face of the restored East Hall.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















