






2013: Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre announces its 15th summer of middle school arts camp | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre announces its 15th summer of middle school arts camp


Muhlenberg offers two month-long programs: Camp Imaginefor grades 6-8, which is free for Allentown School District students,Performing Arts Workshop for grades 9-12. Both programs run  July 1-26.


	 Thursday, April 18, 2013  00:00 PM

This summer, Muhlenberg College's Camp Imagine program celebrates its 15th year of educating and enriching the lives of the Lehigh Valley's middle school students. Founded in 1999 the program provides young people in grades 6-8 with a month-long performing arts experience, which is free for students of the Allentown School District.
High school students can enroll in the Performing Arts Workshop. Both programs provide invaluable experiences and opportunities to nurture passion for the performing arts and build real-life interpersonal and expressive skills. The programs meet for three hours each week day, July 1-26.
"We all build confidence in each other," said a former participant the Performing Arts Workshop.
Each program will culminate in a free showcase performance for family and friends at the conclusion of the four weeks. Participants will be guided through creative arts experiences in the performing arts by talented teams of Muhlenberg College students and alumni. These teaching artists are experienced, professionally trained and supervised.
 "I think that the arts provide not only a tool for performance, but a tool for life," says Renee Lorenzetti, related arts coordinator for the Allentown School District. "It's how we live and it's who we are; and it's what we need in our society."
Camp Imagine students will explore their talents in acting, music, and dance in a safe and open environment, rotating through classes in drama, movement, and vocal expression. They will also get to work with Muhlenberg alumni and students to create a dynamic ensemble environment with their peers.
The Workshop takes a multi-disciplinary approach to the study, creation, and performance of theatre. Students will work in a professional studio setting, learning not only acting, dance, and voice, but also advanced audition technique, ensemble collaboration, and character development. Sessions are modeled after college classes, providing students with the opportunity to experience college-level performing arts instruction. The workshop experience will conclude with an original ensemble performance.
Camp Imagine meets 9:30 to 12:30 a.m. A lunch is provided for free to all participants, and free bus transportation is provided from all four Allentown School District middle schools. For students not enrolled in the Allentown School District, tuition is $395; however, partial and full need-based scholarships are available. The Camp Imagine showcase is Saturday, July 27, at 10 a.m.
The Performing Arts Workshop meets 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. Tuition for all students is $465; however, partial and full need-based scholarships are available.
Both programs meet July 1-26, except for July 4. Students must register to participate. Applications are available online and by request at camp@muhlenberg.edu or 484-664-3693.
The programs are made possible by underwriting support from Enterprise Car Rentals, Crayola, The Foundation for Allentown City Schools, and others. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















