






2013: Faculty Promotions Announced  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Faculty Promotions Announced 



Muhlenberg College is pleased to announce the following faculty members have been promoted to Professor by the Board of Trustees.


	 Monday, April 29, 2013  03:34 PM

Dr. Luba Iskold  has been promoted to Professor of languages, literatures & cultures.  She is the director of the Language Learning Center, director of the Russian Studies Program and advisor to the Russian Club. Since her arrival at Muhlenberg College in 1995, she has been teaching a variety of courses, including all levels of Russian language, Advanced Conversation & Composition, Readings in Russian Literature, Russian Culture & Civilization, 20th Century Russian Literature in Translation, and First Year Seminar: "Strangers in Paradise," as well as directing independent studies on the post-communist art and novel.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. James Peck has been promoted to Professor of theatre & dance.  Peck has directed at theatres throughout the U.S., including the New York Shakespeare Festival, Syracuse Stage and the Hangar Theatre. He is a founding member of the performance laboratory Parade Ground Unit. He has published numerous scholarly articles in academic journals and has chapters in books from major university presses. He serves as editor of Theatre Topics. His intellectual interests include the theory and practice of directing, performance studies, Restoration and eighteenth-century British theatre history and contemporary African theatre.  Peck has taught at the Yale School of Drama, the New York University Tisch School of the Arts and the Playwrights Horizons Theater School.
 
Dr. Mark Sciutto has been promoted to Professor of psychology.  Sciutto has been at Muhlenberg since the Fall of 2001. He teaches Psychological Statistics, Research Methods, Abnormal Psychology, Psychological Assessment, Developmental Psychopathology, and Advanced Research in Psychology. His research focuses on the role that knowledge and misconceptions of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) might play in families’ help-seeking behavior. He is also researching issues of stigma related to Asperger’s Syndrome and Autism. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















