






2013: Muhlenberg College Announces Faculty Promotions | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Muhlenberg College Announces Faculty Promotions



Muhlenberg College is pleased to announce the following faculty members have been granted tenure and promoted to the title of associate professor by the Board of Trustees.


	 Friday, February 15, 2013  09:58 AM

Dr. Byungchul Cha, mathematics and computer science, came to Muhlenberg in 2007.  He earned a B.S. from Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and a Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University, where he specialized in number theory.  Specifically, he is interested in Euler systems of Heegner points of elliptic curves and their applications in Shafarevich-Tate groups, as well as the distribution of zeros of various L-functions in a function fields setting. More generally, he is interested in anything related to prime numbers.
Dr. Anne Esacove, sociology, joined the Muhlenberg community in 2006.  She has her B.A. from California State University, Northridge, a Master of Public Health degree from the University of Washington and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.  She worked for many years as a health educator and policy analyst between and while pursuing her degrees.  Esacove’s research and teaching interests are grounded in her professional experience and include sexuality, gender, health and qualitative and historical research methods.
Dr. Brian Mello, political science, has a B.A. from Fairfield University and a M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Washington, Seattle.  His areas of study include comparative politics, international relations, political theory and the politics of social movements. Dr. Mello’s research focuses generally on politics in Europe and in the Middle East, and in particular on Turkish politics. His research examines such subjects as the impact of labor movement activism in Turkey, Great Britain, the United States and Japan; international norms of women’s rights as human rights; the affect of civil-military relations on Islamic politics in Turkey; and the causes and consequences of the Arab Spring.
Dr. Stefanie Sinno, psychology, earned a B.S. from Ursinus College and a Ph.D. from the University of Maryland.  She teaches courses in developmental psychology, primarily child and adolescent development, as well as a seminar course on the developmental understanding on inclusion and exclusion.  Her research training and expertise is in the area of social and moral development, with a focus on children's and adolescents' social reasoning in everyday contexts.  She joined the Muhlenberg community in 2007. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















