






2013: Dean Karen Green Honored by Agnes Scott College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Dean Karen Green Honored by Agnes Scott College



Karen Green, vice president for student affairs and dean of students, was honored by her alma mater, Agnes Scott College, as a part of their Founders Day celebration on February 15, 2013. 


	 Monday, March 11, 2013  09:58 AM

Recognized as one of “Five Women Who Shaped Agnes Scott,” Green’s work in the area of diversity and social justice for students, staff and faculty in higher education was highlighted in a talk on campus titled “First to Ride in the Front of the Bus.” Green was the only African American and the only living honoree.
The 2013-2014 year marks the 125th anniversary of the founding of Agnes Scott College.  Many women will be honored in various ways throughout the upcoming year.   The event on February 15 kicked off the year-long celebration.
“I was humbled and honored to be recognized for the work I did to make the college a better place for future students, staff and faculty,” said Green.  “When you engage in the work of changing institutional culture the twins, fear and resistance, can thwart meaningful efforts.  It was the support of my allies that lifted me when I felt I couldn't fight another battle.  I will be eternally grateful for their encouragement and partnership.”
Green has been a member of the Muhlenberg community since 2006.  She received her baccalaureate degree from Agnes Scott College in Atlanta in 1986, where the Karen Green Human Relations Award was created in her honor.  She went on to earn her Masters of Divinity from the Candler School of Theology at Emory University in 1997.
She began her administrative career as a Resident Director at Spelman College, later served in the Admissions office at Agnes Scott, and subsequently became Director of Orientation, Residence Life and Student Activities at her alma mater before leaving Atlanta to accept the position of Director of Multicultural Affairs at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. 
She held additional leadership positions in student life at Agnes Scott, Emory, and Hamilton before assuming the position of Dean of Students at Wells College on September 11, 2001.
At Muhlenberg, she oversees more than 70 full-time employees and several departments.  Athletics and recreation, campus safety, community service, Greek life, judicial affairs, residential services, student activities, the counseling center, the health center, student leadership and Seegers Union/campus events are under her supervision.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















