






2013: Professor Peter Holland Delivers The John D.M. Brown Lecture | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Professor Peter Holland Delivers The John D.M. Brown Lecture



Dr. Peter Holland, the McMeel Family Professor in Shakespeare Studies at the University of Notre Dame, will give the John D.M. Brown Lecture at Muhlenberg College. 


	 Friday, April 5, 2013  03:20 PM

The talk, titled “Haunting Shakespeare, or King Lear Meets Alice,” is free and open to the public. It will be preceded by an informal reception at 6:30 p.m.
Holland is also the Associate Dean for the Arts and Department of Film, Television and Theatre at the University of Notre Dame. He earned his Ph.D. from Trinity Hall, University of Cambridge. From 1997 to 2002 Holland was Director of the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-upon-Avon and is one of the Institute’s Honorary Fellows. He was also a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company and a Trustee of the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust before going to Notre Dame. He was the Judith E. Wilson Reader in Drama and Theatre at the University of Cambridge and Director of the Shakespeare Institute and Professor of Shakespeare Studies at the University of Birmingham. He served as President of the Shakespeare Association of America from 2007 to 2008.
Holland’s first book, The Ornament of Action, was a study of Restoration comedy in performance. Subsequent work has concentrated on Shakespeare in performance. He has edited many of Shakespeare’s plays and has written widely on the plays in performance. He is the editor of “Shakespeare Survey,” the UK’s leading Shakespeare journal, general editor for a number of book series and series editor of Redefining British Theatre History. Other interests include David Garrick, contemporary British drama, performance theory and English pantomimes.  
The John D.M. Brown Lectureship is underwritten by a generous gift from Mary E. Brown in loving memory of her husband Dr. John D.M. Brown (1883-1951), who served as a Professor of English at Muhlenberg College for 37 years. Brown graduated from Muhlenberg College in 1906 and joined the Muhlenberg College faculty in 1912. He served as head of the Muhlenberg English department from 1927 to 1949, and was honored as the first recipient of the college’s Florence T. Saeger Professorship. In addition, Wittenberg University named Brown a Doctor of Literature in 1922 and Muhlenberg awarded him a Doctor of Humane Letters degree in 1948.
This lecture is sponsored by the Muhlenberg College department of English. 
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















