






2013: Professor Lawrence Lessig Gives Talk for Center for Ethics | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Professor Lawrence Lessig Gives Talk for Center for Ethics



Dr. Lawrence Lessig, director of the Edmond J. Safra Foundation Center for Ethics at Harvard University and the Roy L. Furman Professor of Law and Leadership at Harvard Law School, will deliver a talk.


	 Wednesday, April 10, 2013  09:58 AM

The talk, “What Does It Mean to Say, ‘Our Congress is Corrupt’?,” on Monday, April 15, at 7:30 p.m. in the Empie Theatre, Center for the Arts.   This event, the final in the year-long Center for Ethics series Market\Values, is free and open to the public.
Before rejoining the faculty at Harvard University, Lessig taught at Stanford University, where he founded the Center for Internet and Society, and at the University of Chicago.  His research has focused on law and technology, especially as it affects copyright.  Currently, his work focuses on issues of institutional corruption as it affects public trust.  Lessig is the author of five books: Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace (1999), The Future of Ideas (2001), Free Culture (2004), Code Version 2.0 (2007) and Remix (2008) and hundreds of articles, columns and commentaries.  Lessig has won many awards, including the Free Software Foundation’s Freedom Award and the Fastcase 50 Award.  He was also named one of Scientific American’s Top 50 Visionaries. 
Market\Values is co-directed by Sue Curry Jansen, professor of media and communications, Mohsin Hashim, associate professor of political science, and Marcia Morgan, assistant professor of philosophy.  This year-long program examines historical and contemporary questions about markets and accompanying moral issues they raise.  The goal of the Center for Ethics’ programming is to engage the community in intensive and reflective thinking about individual and collective values.
For more information on the series, please visit http://www.muhlenberg.edu/main/aboutus/cfe/.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















