






2013: Patti Mittleman, Long-Time Muhlenberg Hillel Director Retires | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 






2013













2013











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2013 











Patti Mittleman, Long-Time Muhlenberg Hillel Director Retires



Patti Mittleman, Jewish Chaplain and director of the Hillel program at Muhlenberg College will retire this summer. 


	 Monday, May 6, 2013  10:24 AM

Mittleman has served the College for 25 years.  Under her leadership and guidance, the College's Hillel program has garnered local, regional and national honors.
Muhlenberg's Hillel program was the first small liberal arts college in the country to achieve Hillel Foundation status.  Currently, Muhlenberg has more than 700 Jewish students and is one of the most active Hillel affiliates in the country.  The College has also been nationally recognized for its kosher dining program, which is fully integrated with the College’s dining plan.
Mittleman won the 2006 Muhlenberg College Chairman’s Award, the College’s highest honor for a staff member.  In 2008, she was awarded the AIPAC Ally of the Year Award from the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  In 1999, she was awarded the “Exemplar of Excellence Award” from Hillel International.
"Jewish life on campus continues to thrive," said Muhlenberg College President Randy Helm.  "Muhlenberg will be forever grateful to Patti for her leadership and support of our Jewish community and for successfully engaging the students, parents, faculty, staff and alumni who have played an active role in our Hillel activities and programs over the years."
The College Hillel House was on Liberty Street until 2000, when it moved to its current location at 2238 Chew Street.  In 2011, the house underwent major renovations, including a major addition that tripled the size of the house.  The new space includes a 300-seat space for Shabbat Dinners, classroom space, offices and student lounge areas.
"Patti has been part of an exceptional campus ministry team that provides our students with extraordinary guidance and pastoral care," added Helm.  “We will begin a search to fill this critical position as soon as possible.
In addition to her Hillel work, she was the founding advisor to the Gay Straight Alliance, the Muslim Student Association and the RIBBON Project, an HIV/AIDS awareness group.  She was also part of the Multicultural Center Exploration and Formation Committee and was a member of the search committee for several campus positions.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















