






2016: Mule Runner Celebrates Leap Day Birthday | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Mule Runner Celebrates Leap Day Birthday


Erin Shemeluk ran the third leg of the 4x800-meter relay for the Muhlenberg women's track and field team at yesterday's Centennial Conference Indoor Championships.


	 Monday, February 29, 2016  03:33 PM

She helped the Mule quartet post an ECAC-qualifying time and finish in fifth place, earning four team points.Not bad for someone who hadn't yet celebrated her fifth birthday.Shemeluk was born on February 29, 1996, making her a rare Leap Day baby."I like to think I'm one of the only ones out there," said the sophomore, and the math backs her up. Leap Day comes around only once every 1,461 days, so with all else being equal, the odds of someone being born on February 29 are less than .07 percent. Last time there was a Leap Day, in 2012, there were no Muhlenberg students born on February 29. This year, Shemeluk is the only one.Shemeluk and her family like to have fun with her unique birthday. "My dad always jokes that I really shouldn't celebrate until March 1 since I wasn't born in February. I wasn't alive on the 28th. Then I come back and say, but I was born on the last day in February! It's a tossup."When she turned four years old and got to celebrate her actual birthday for the first time, Shemeluk's parents sent in a picture to a local television news station for a "baby's first birthday" special."My mom always says I can qualify for social security and my driver's permit on the same birthday - 64 and 16," said Shemeluk.Shemeluk's friends have also embraced the novelty of her Leap birthday, giving her frog-themed cards and stuffed frogs as presents.A history major and Dean's List student in the education program, Shemeluk recently got to share her birthday with middle-school students while doing fieldwork."I was introducing myself to the kids and I was like - fun fact, my birthday is on the 29th, and it blew their minds! They were like, oh my gosh, how do you celebrate? I got all the usual questions."One question she probably didn't get – with a birthday on Leap Day, wouldn't it be more natural for Shemeluk to be a jumper instead of a distance runner on the Mule track and field team?"I don't think my legs would hold out," she said. "I did try jumps in high school, and I actually liked it, but they said I was better at distance."Today Shemeluk will have the chance to celebrate her actual birthday for the only time as a college student – undoubtedly combining the maturity of a 20-year-old with the fun of a 5-year-old."It's nice having a special birthday," she said. "Birthdays are always special in my family, but it kind of makes me stand out, so I like it."
For more about Athletics, please visit muhlenbergsports.com. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















