






2016: Muhlenberg Announces #BlackOnCampus as Theme of Martin Luther King, Jr. Week | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg Announces #BlackOnCampus as Theme of Martin Luther King, Jr. Week


MLK Jr. Week, scheduled Jan. 24-30, is sponsored by the Africana Studies program, the Black Student Association, the Office of Multicultural Life and The Office of the Chaplain.  


	 Monday, January 18, 2016  01:09 PM

"The goal of our programming is to provide the space for intellectual dialogue that pushes our community to think critically and analytically about the world in which we live," says Roberta Meek, lecturer of history and media & communication and director of the Africana Studies (minor) program. "The goal of Martin Luther King Jr. Week has been to do the same as well as to consider the life of Dr. King as it relates to our current moment in history."
At Muhlenberg, Martin Luther King, Jr. Week is the beginning of a series of events, panels and speakers to be held throughout the spring semester. All events listed below are free and open to the public.
MLK CelebrationSunday, Jan. 24 from 2:00 - 4:00 p.m.Seegers Union Event Space
Our annual celebration includes student performers and a talk by keynote speaker Barry A. Cleckley '12, former BSA co-president and co-founder of Muhlenberg's week-long MLK Week celebration.
Chapel ServiceSunday, Jan. 24, 5:00 p.m.Egner Memorial Chapel
All denominations as well as those with no church background are invited to join the Muhlenberg community for a Protestant Christian worship service in celebration of the life and legacy of The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
The service will include spoken word by Ronald Christian, Jr., Class of 2016, reflection by Chaplain Callista Isabelle, Holy Communion and music led by Bryson Jones from Union Baptist Church in Allentown.
Chapel DinnerSunday, Jan. 24, 6:00 p.m.Hoffman House
All are welcome to this informal dinner in the Hoffman House. A chance to continue the conversation from the Sunday afternoon MLK celebration.
Gospel Weekend ConcertRehearsals: Friday, Jan. 29, 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. and Saturday, Jan. 30, 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.Concert: Saturday, Jan. 30, 4:00 p.m.
The Gospel Weekend Concert will be performed under the direction of Edward "Chief" Menifee, a musician at Morehouse College Chapel in Atlanta. Rehearsals are open to anyone interested in making a joyful noise.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















