






2016: "Tweeting the Liberal Arts" invites participants to explore the potential of social media to foster or fragment communities  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











"Tweeting the Liberal Arts" invites participants to explore the potential of social media to foster or fragment communities 


Christopher P. Long, dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Michigan State University, will lead an interactive presentation on February 1 at 8:00 p.m. in Moyer Hall's Miller Forum. 


	 Thursday, January 28, 2016  03:05 PM

The event, co-sponsored by the Muhlenberg Center for Teaching and Learning, the Digital Learning Team and the RJ Fellows Program, is free and open to the public.
Long's presentation explores the power of digital communication to create or destroy a sense of community. Using Twitter in real time, Long evokes the essence of a liberal arts education, inviting attendees to become active and engaged participants in a dialogue about the role of technology in life-long learning. Participants should arrive prepared to engage one another and Long himself through his Twitter handle @cplong and the event hashtag #MCLA16.
Christopher P. Long is dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Michigan State University. His extensive publications in Ancient Greek and Contemporary Continental Philosophy include three books: The Ethics of Ontology: Rethinking an Aristotelian Legacy (SUNY 2004), Aristotle On the Nature of Truth (Cambridge 2010), and an enhanced digital book entitled, Socratic and Platonic Political Philosophy: Practicing a Politics of Reading (Cambridge 2014). The digital platform of the enhanced digital book enables readers to engage directly with the author in an online community. He is also co-founder of the Public Philosophy Journal (@PubPhilJ), a project that has received over $780,000 of funding from the Mellon Foundation to create an innovative online space of digital scholarship and communication.
For more information, view the original article on the Muhlenberg College Digital Learning blog or contact Linda McGuire, professor of mathematics, or Lora Taub-Pervizpour, associate dean for digital learning, Scheller Endowed Chair and director of the RJ Fellows Program and associate professor of media & communication.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















