






2016: Muhlenberg to host visiting Israeli artist this spring | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg to host visiting Israeli artist this spring


Sharon Vazanna, a Schusterman Visiting Israeli Artist, will teach in Muhlenberg's dance program during the spring semester.


	 Tuesday, January 26, 2016  02:05 PM

Vazanna will also present a performance on campus with her Israeli dance partner Tamar Sonn on March 17. Trailers of the creations that will be performed, A HIGH and Transparent Borders, can be viewed on Vimeo.“I am very excited about my semester here at Muhlenberg, and looking forward to teaching young American dancers,” said Vazanna. “Performing and sharing my work with audiences here at Muhlenberg and in the U.S. is a unique opportunity that I very much look forward to.”Vazanna is one of nine leading Israeli artists in residence at colleges and universities across the U.S. for the 2015-16 academic year through the Israel Institute’s Schusterman Visiting Israeli Artist Program. Celebrated in a variety of disciplines, including choreography, music, the visual arts and literature, the artists spend a semester teaching and presenting their work to audiences in local communities through classes, exhibitions and performances. Founder of The Sharon Vazanna Dance Group, Vazanna is an independent choreographer and dancer. Her creations were invited to perform in the U.S, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Sweden, Spain and Denmark.As a dancer, she toured internationally with the Kibbutz Dance Company and the Idan Cohen Dance Company, Israel; and the Cullberg Ballet, Sweden; among others.Videos of her work are available on Vimeo and her website. Of one of the creations that will be performed on campus in March, Ori Lenkinski of the The Jerusalem Post said, “With the creation HIGH, Vazanna once again affirms her perspective as a powerful female artist.”Before the semester started, Vazanna performed at the prestigious 92nd Street Y in New York City. Her 92Y performance was previewed in a New York Times article earlier this month.Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















