






2016: Women's Basketball Climbs into Top 10 Ranking | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Women's Basketball Climbs into Top 10 Ranking


The Muhlenberg women's basketball team may have been idle on the court between semesters, but not in the polls.


	 Tuesday, January 5, 2016  04:32 PM

‌
The 8-0 Mules moved up to No. 10 in the first D3hoops.com poll of 2016. It's their first time in the top 10 since 2012, when they climbed as high as No. 9. The highest ranking in program history was No. 8 during the 2001-02 season.Muhlenberg has not played since December 12, when it defeated local rival DeSales, 86-78, for its 26th win in 29 games. In the D3hoops.com poll that came out two days later, the Mules were 14th.The holiday period that followed was a topsy-turvy time in Division III women's basketball. Of the 13 teams ranked ahead of Muhlenberg in the previous poll, three lost once and four lost twice, allowing the Mules to move up despite not playing.One of 13 remaining undefeated teams in Division III (there were 24 when the last poll came out), Muhlenberg continues to rank among the Division III statistical leaders in several categories. The Mules are second in assists per game and fewest fouls per game, sixth in assist-to-turnover ratio, seventh in field-goal percentage defense and scoring margin, 11th in blocked shots per game and 12th in scoring offense.Individuals who rank in the top 20 statistically are sophomore Brandi Vallely (first in assists per game and 14th in steals per game), sophomore Rachel Plotke (ninth in three-pointers per game) and senior Christina Santone (17th in blocked shots per game).Muhlenberg returns to action with a stretch of four games in eight days beginning Thursday with a home contest against Dickinson. The next two games are against the teams that finished ahead of the Mules in the Centennial Conference preseason poll - Johns Hopkins (away on Saturday) and McDaniel (home on Tuesday).
This article was originally published on MuhlenbergSports.com, home for information about women's basketball and other athletic teams.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















