






2016: Muhlenberg Board of Associates Honors Students for Community Service  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 






2016













2016











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2016 











Muhlenberg Board of Associates Honors Students for Community Service 


Four Muhlenberg students were awarded the 2016 Muhlenberg College Board of Associates Community Service Awards at the annual spring dinner.


By:

 

  Alexandra Loeser '16  


	 Thursday, May 12, 2016  11:39 AM

From left: Adam Halpern, Rikki Chaskes, Diane Pierce-Williams, John Williams, Jose Flores, Julia Burns
The students were nominated by the College’s office of community service and civic engagement and selected by the Board of Associates. On average, each student devotes more than 20 hours per week to community service.
Julia Burns ’16, of Cherry Hill, N.J., is a biology major and sociology minor on the pre-health track. She is the Student Class Council President as well as the president for both the Habitat for Humanity and Best Buddies Chapters at the College; through these leadership positions, she was able to facilitate an expansion of opportunities for club members to engage in the community. These efforts included her organization of a Family Fun Night for Habitat for Humanity, which allowed members to interact with partner families and staff members of the Lehigh Valley affiliate.
Rikki Chaskes ’16, a studio art major from Syosset, N.Y., has spent her time at Muhlenberg working to become an educator. She has also found time and opportunity to give back to the community through her involvement with programs such as Art Day in the Allentown School District and through her volunteer work with the Jewish community of Allentown. Rikki plans to encourage her future students to engage in community service just as she has done throughout her college career.
Jose Flores ’16, is a political science major and Spanish minor from Brooklyn, N.Y. A first-generation college student, Jose is focused on making the most of his college experience. Part of that effort is to engage in service opportunities such as his membership at the Office of Civic Engagement and through his placement at a church in Allentown where he teaches English as a Second Language classes. Jose plans to become a teacher and to bring his service experiences with organizations such as Delta Tau Delta and the Comunidad Latina with him into the classroom.      
Adam Halpern ’16, of Rockaway, N.Y., is an RJ Fellow on the pre-med track, majoring in neuroscience with a minor in music. As the president of both Alpha Phi Omega and the Cardinal Key society, Adam has dedicated countless hours to giving back to the community around Muhlenberg. Particularly interested in youth engagement, Adam created and coordinated the Muhlenberg-Jefferson Circus Extravaganza, the only free interactive circus workshop available to Allentown students. Adam’s goal is to enter the pediatric field as he moves on from Muhlenberg.  
The Muhlenberg College Board of Associates is an organization of business, professional and civic leaders committed to fostering community understanding and support of Muhlenberg College. The organization meets periodically with College faculty and staff to be informed about the work of the College and to reflect community opinion and concerns. The Board has provided underwriting support for career development programs, sponsors a scholarship and has sponsored programs of cultural interest to the College and the community. 
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















