






The Liberal Arts Changed My Life | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsThe Liberal Arts Changed My Life 






The Liberal Arts Changed My Life
A True Story Contest for Members of the Muhlenberg Community













The Liberal Arts Changed My Life











ConfirmationContest WinnersHonorable Mentions











Home
Who We AreOffice of the PresidentPast PresidentsThe Liberal Arts Changed My Life 












Thank you for your interest, but the submission deadline for the contest has passed.
 
A True Story Contestfor Members of the Muhlenberg Community
Muhlenberg is looking for a few (or more) good stories. We know that the liberal arts change lives and there are all sorts of statistics to prove it.  But we want to hear from you!  Thus, we are announcing this contest.
In 100 words or less, provide a true story about how the liberal arts changed your life (hopefully for the better).  Stories can feature any (or all) areas of the liberal arts - humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, or the arts.  We are looking for stories about how your liberal arts education (whether at Muhlenberg or elsewhere) helped you learn something about yourself, your talents, your purpose in life, or something else that has had an important influence on what you do, how you do it, how you think, how you solve problems, or how you live.  While stories like "I met my spouse in my art history class" are sweet, that is not what we are looking for (after all, theoretically you could have met your spouse in a queue at the ATM).
While we cannot accept anonymous entries, the entries will have identifying information removed before being judged by a select panel of judges, chaired by President Helm.
Selected winners may be offered an opportunity to tell their stories in this year's Muhlenberg video (to be filmed in November). Some winners may have their stories published in Muhlenberg magazine.  One grand winner will receive a Muhlenberg Captain's chair, engraved with his/her name and affiliation and up to two lines of text of her or his choosing.
The contest is open to all members of the Muhlenberg community: students, alumni, faculty, staff, parents, and friends.
Stories can be submitted below, or via email or on paper to Ken Butler, Executive Assistant to the President (butler@muhlenberg.edu) no later than October 15. Winners will be announced in December.  


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















