






2014: Caroll Bogert to Speak on Human Rights  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Caroll Bogert to Speak on Human Rights 


Deputy Executive Director of Human Rights Watch Visits Campus Courtesy of the Center for Ethics and the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Scholar Program



	 Monday, October 20, 2014  02:23 PM

Caroll Bogert, deputy executive director for external relations of Human Rights Watch, will give a talk, “Can the U.S. Lead on Human Rights in the 21st Century?"on Monday, October 27, 2014 at 7:30 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. This event, co-sponsored by the Center for Ethics and the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Scholar program, is free and open to the public.
Bogert has worked at Human Rights Watch since 1998. She oversees the organization's external relations and works with the executive director on advocacy and fundraising. Bogert previously served as Human Rights Watch's communications director, publicizing the organization's work and drawing attention to human rights issues in more than 90 countries worldwide. Before joining Human Rights Watch, she spent more than a decade in international news reporting for Newsweek magazine, beginning as a stringer in China, then moving to the Southeast Asia bureau as correspondent, becoming bureau chief in Moscow, and finally working as an editor and international correspondent in the magazine's New York office. Bogert holds a master's degree in East Asian Studies and a bachelor's magna cum laude from Harvard University.
This event is part of the year-long Center for Ethics series, Civility and Disobedience, under the direction of Brian Mello, associate professor of political science, and Christine Sistare, professor of philosophy.
Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.  Center for Ethics programs are free and open to all members of the Muhlenberg campus and the local community.
Bogert’s visit to campus is a part of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow program. Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows connect a liberal education with the world beyond the campus by bringing thoughtful and successful practitioners to colleges for a week of discussions with students and faculty. Fellows are scheduled for formal presentations in classrooms, panels, and public platforms, and informal encounters at meals, in student centers, clubs, dormitories, career counseling and individual sessions. The week-long visit allows Fellows to explicate their ideas fully and often leads to continuing ties.
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation has developed and conducted programs in higher education since 1945. More than 200 colleges have participated in the Visiting Fellows program since 1973. Dr. Lynda Yankaskas, assistant professor of history, is the chair of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Committee
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















