






2014: Poet and Hip-Hop Recording Artist Ursula Rucker Returns to Campus as Part of Center for Ethics Programming | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Poet and Hip-Hop Recording Artist Ursula Rucker Returns to Campus as Part of Center for Ethics Programming


"She Said" is a new-jazz tour-of-duty onto the battlefields of social justice, race and gender.


	 Wednesday, October 8, 2014  03:11 PM

Poet. Performer. Hip-hop recording artist. Shamaness. The outspoken Ursula Rucker brings her civil but disobedient “she-lectricity” back to Muhlenberg for a night of original genre-defying performance on Saturday, October 11 at 8:00 p.m. in the Baker Theatre, Trexler Pavilion. Part hip-hop show, part poetry-slam, part indefinable theatrical ritual, Rucker’s She Said is a new-jazz tour-of-duty onto the battlefields of social injustice, race and gender. This is a ticketed event. Everyone must hold a ticket to attend. Tickets (one per student) are FREE for Muhlenberg students, faculty and staff. Tickets for the general public are $5 (general admission). Tickets can be obtained from the Muhlenberg College Theatre and Dance Ticket Office.
On Tuesday, October 21 at 8:00 p.m., Rucker will premiere We.Are.Here., an evening of new spoken-word performances created by the first year students in Muhlenberg's Emerging Leaders program. Held in the Red Door Café, this performance is set to live music and themed on notions of civility, disobedience and identity. We.Are.Here is free and open to the public.
Ursula Rucker is a poet and hip-hop recording artist whose work deals with confronting social injustice, especially as it relates to race and womanhood. She has released five critically acclaimed solo albums, and her musical collaborations include work with the Roots, the Silent Poets, King Britt and Josh Wink. She has toured extensively and is featured in the 2008 film The Black Candle, narrated by Maya Angelou. Rucker’s appearance is co-sponsored by the Department of Theatre & Dance.
This event is part of the year-long Center for Ethics series, Civility and Disobedience, under the direction of Brian Mello, associate professor of political science, and Christine Sistare, professor of philosophy.
Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.  Center for Ethics programs are free and open to all members of the Muhlenberg campus and the local community.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















