






2014: Hillel Hosts Yael Gertel, Israel Campus Fellow | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Hillel Hosts Yael Gertel, Israel Campus Fellow


Muhlenberg College is one of a few select colleges that were invited to apply for a short-term Israel Fellow in a program funded by Jewish Federations of North America and Hillel International.


	 Friday, September 5, 2014  01:18 PM

Muhlenberg College Hillel will host Israel Campus Fellow, Yael Gertel, from September 8 - September 24.
Muhlenberg Hillel’s Israel Campus Fellow will assist with back-to-school Israel engagement and education.  In her time at Muhlenberg, Gertel will provide extra support, unique and innovative strategy, and another medium through which students will be able to connect with, understand and support Israel. Muhlenberg College is one of a few select colleges that were invited to apply for a short-term Israel Fellow in a program funded by Jewish Federations of North America and Hillel International.
Rabbi Melissa B. Simon, the Hillel Director and Jewish Chaplain, explained, “We are eager to welcome Yael to the Muhlenberg College campus. She will play an important role in our recruitment for Taglit-Birthright Israel.” Muhlenberg Hillel will partner with Birthright for a free 10-day trip to Israel in December.
Nationwide, 58 Jewish Agency Israel Fellows to Hillel serve 67 North American campuses, cultivating relationships with nearly 7,000 students each year.
Born and raised in Jerusalem- a proud 14th generation Jerusalemite, and a former Israeli Army Intelligence Commander, Gertel holds a BA in Education, Sociology and Anthropology from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. In October, Gertel will begin her studies in the Honors Graduate Program in Public Policy at the Hebrew University, Jerusalem. During the past two years, Gertel served as the Jewish Agency Israel Fellow to University of Maryland Hillel.
Muhlenberg College Hillel serves the most active Jewish campus population in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley. Over 33% of the 2200 member student body at Muhlenberg College identifies as Jewish. Over two-thirds of the Jewish students on campus are active in Hillel, making it the largest student organization of any kind on campus. Muhlenberg College was recently recognized as having the fifth largest Jewish population per capita of any college in the nation.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















