






2014: Alumni Participate in Activism Panel | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Alumni Participate in Activism Panel


Part of the year-long Center for Ethics series "Civility and Disobedience," this event is presented in conjunction with Homecoming Weekend.


	 Monday, September 8, 2014  04:32 PM

Three Muhlenberg College alumni will return to campus to participate in the Center for Ethics program, “Muhlenberg Alumni Activism Panel,” on Friday, September 12, 2014 at 2:00 pm in Trumbower 130.  Kelly Howe ’03, Alex Lotorto ’09 and Adrian Shanker ’09 will discuss different forms of activism. This event is free and open to the public and is presented in conjunction with Homecoming Weekend.
Howe has been involved with social justice activism through theater.  She currently teaches courses in theatre history, activist theatre, script analysis, acting, theatrical dialogue facilitation, and feminist and queer theory at North Central College, near Chicago.  Her commitment to activist performance includes her work as past president of Pedagogy & Theatre of the Oppressed, an organization that supports people whose work challenges oppressive systems by promoting critical thinking and social justice through liberatory theatre and popular education. 
Lotorto has been heavily involved in labor and environmental activism.  A proud member of the IWW, Alex has played a leading role in organizing opposition to fracking, gas pipeline construction, and other forms of industrial development that threaten the environment in Northeast Pennsylvania. 
Shanker has been a leading advocate for LGBT rights, including workplace nondiscrimination, marriage equality, and employment benefits.  He has led successful campaigns to expand LGBT equality in cities, towns, colleges and school districts in Pennsylvania and has worked as a union organizer, non-profit fundraiser, and political campaign operative.  
The panel is part of the year-long Center for Ethics series, Civility and Disobedience, under the direction of Brian Mello, associate professor of political science, and Christine Sistare, professor of philosophy.
Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.  Center for Ethics programs are free and open to all members of the Muhlenberg campus and the local community.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















