






Sparks Justin | Muhlenberg College






















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu















Faculty Profiles























Justin  SparksAssociate Professor, ChemistryChemistryMain Campus > Shankweiler Biology Building > 334S484-664-3681jsparks@muhlenberg.edu
Education

Ph.D., chemistry, The Pennsylvania State University
B.S., chemistry, DeSales University

Teaching Interests
Why are the intricate workings of atoms and molecules relevant to our everyday lives?  Why are certain combinations/arrangements of atoms utilized to fabricate the screen that you are using to read this?  Discussing relatable questions like these in my physical chemistry and materials science courses leads to an impactful, lasting learning experience for each individual learner.  Within this dialogue, I emphasize the interconnected nature of scientific principles to help students organize seemingly complicated topics into a cohesive concept network. Understanding unifying themes also helps students develop both a predictive intuition for solving complex problems and a skill set for independently learning new material.  In the ever-expanding field of science, this capacity for lifelong learning is indispensable. Thus, my objective as a professor is to not only teach the course content in an engaging and enduring manner but to also ingrain a passion and curiosity to continually ask, and seek answers to, "why?".
Research, Scholarship or Creative/Artistic InterestsTraditionally, chemists follow a familiar tenet where the physical and chemical properties of molecules are controlled by changing the constituent atoms and/or the way in which those atoms are bonded together.  Strong coupling is an alternative paradigm, where, instead, molecular properties are altered without changing the elements, bonds, or geometry in a formal sense. When a molecule is placed in an optical cavity (between two mirrors spaced apart by approximately one tenth of the thickness of your hair), a photon emitted from the molecule has an increased probability of being reflected back, reabsorbed, and emitted again.  This oscillation of energy between the optical cavity and the molecule results in the formation of new quantum states, known as polaritons, that are composed of both light and matter. By coupling, or "mixing", light with matter, my research group modifies the characteristics of molecules in an effort to access novel chemistries that are unattainable by traditional means.


Courses Taught Include:Chemistry Independent Study/Research: Quantum Strong Coupling: CUE: Chemistry Capstone Seminar: Dana Scholars Directed Studies: Quantum Strong Coupling: General Chemistry I: Physical Chemistry I: Physical Chemistry II: Spc Top: Scientific Computing: 
College Honors & Awards
Summer Research Grant, 2016 and 2017
Bridge Builder Award, 2016 and 2017

Recent Publications, Presentations & Abstracts(* = Muhlenberg Student)

D. C. Lewczyk*, J. W. Cohan*, M. L. Goetz*, B. L. Trafford*, R. L. Fuller, and J. R. Sparks. Kinetic Treatment of Evaporation via Thermogravimetric Analysis: The Case of d-Limonene,Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, (2020), 59, 15069-15074.
A. T. Hendrickson, S. C. Aro, J. R. Sparks, M. G. Coco, J. P. Krug, C. J. Mathewson, S. A. McDaniel, P. J. A. Sazio, G. Cook, V. Gopalan, and J. V. Badding. Post-Processing ZnSe Optical Fibers with a Micro-Chemical Vapor Transport Technique, Optical Materials Express, (2020), 10, 3125-3136.
J. R. Sparks, S. C. Aro, R. He, M. L. Goetz*, J. P. Krug, S. A. McDaniel, P. A. Berry, G. Cook, K. L. Schepler, P. J. A. Sazio, V. Gopalan, and J. V. Badding. Chromium Doped Zinc Selenide Optical Fiber Lasers, Optical Materials Express, (2020) 10, 1843-1852.
I. Imran*, G. E. Nicolai*, N. D. Stavinksi*, and J. R. Sparks. Tuning Vibrational Strong Coupling with Co-Resonators, ACS Photonics, (2019), 6, 2405-2412.
V. F. Crum*, S. R. Casey*, and J. R. Sparks. Photon-Mediated Hybridization of Molecular Vibrational States, Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, (2018), 20, 850-857.
S. R. Casey* and J. R. Sparks. Vibrational Strong Coupling of Organometallic Complexes, The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, (2016), 120, 28138-28143.
S. R. Casey* and J. R. Sparks. Microfluidic Vibrational Strong Coupling of Organometallic Complexes in Aqueous Solutions, American Chemical Society National Meeting, San Francisco, (April 2017).
N. Healy, S. Mailis, N. M. Bulgakova, P. J. A. Sazio, T. D. Day, J. R. Sparks, H. Y. Cheng, J. V. Badding, and A. C. Peacock. Extreme Electronic Band-Gap Modification in Laser Crystallized Silicon Optical Fibres, Nature Materials, (2014), 13, 1122-1127.
C. Peacock, N. Healy, J. R. Sparks, and J. V. Badding. Semiconductor Optical Fibres: Progress and Opportunities, Laser and Photonics Reviews, (2013), 8, 53-72.
J. R. Sparks, P. J. A. Sazio, V. Gopalan, and J. V. Badding. Templated Chemically Deposited Semiconductor Optical Fiber Materials, Annual Review of Materials Research, (2013), 43, 527-557.
J. R. Sparks, R. He, N. Healy, S. Chaudhuri, T. C. Fitzgibbons, A. C. Peacock, P. J. A. Sazio, and J. V. Badding. Conformal Coating by High Pressure Chemical Deposition for Patterned Microwires of II-VI Semiconductors, Advanced Functional Materials, (2013), 23, 1647-1654.
R. He, P. J. A. Sazio, A. C. Peacock, N. Healy, J. R. Sparks, V. Gopalan, and J. V. Badding, Integration of GHz Bandwidth Semiconductor Devices inside Microstructured Optical Fibres, Nature Photonics, (2012), 6, 174-179.
N. F. Baril, R. He, T. D. Day, J. R. Sparks, B. Keshavarzi, M. Krishnamurthi, A. Borhan, V. Gopalan, P. J. A. Sazio, and J. V. Badding. Confined High Pressure Chemical Deposition of Amorphous Hydrogenated Silicon, Journal of the American Chemical Society, (2012), 134, 19-22.
J. R. Sparks, R. He, N. Healy, M. Krishnamurthi, A. C. Peacock, P. J. A. Sazio, V. Gopalan, and J. V. Badding. Zinc Selenide Optical Fibers, Advanced Materials, (2011), 23, 1647-1651.

 

Professional Websitemuhlenbergchem.com/sparks/
Go Back to Search >>



















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 


















