






2014: Center for Ethics Announces Fall Programming: Civility and Disobedience  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Center for Ethics Announces Fall Programming: Civility and Disobedience 


Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.   



	 Monday, August 25, 2014  04:09 PM

The Muhlenberg Center for Ethics will sponsor Civility and Disobedience, a year-long series of special events and thematic lectures. 
Societies and organizations depend on compliance and obedience in order to function. Markets suffer if rules are not followed, and societies do not thrive in a state of chaos. But governments and organizations can be morally corrupt; the United States once allowed people to be enslaved, and the tobacco industry deliberately withheld the risks of their potentially lethal product. Under these circumstances, obedience becomes complicity and disobedience becomes the ethical course of action. Thus groups of people and individual whistle-blowers are often called to acts of disobedience and subversion by injustice they observe or experience. Martin Luther’s reformation, the American Civil Rights Movement, environmental activism, military draft-resistance, WikiLeaks, Occupy Wall Street, the African National Congress, Gandhi’s Indian independence movement, the Chiapas Rebellion, and the Arab Spring all represent significant rebellions against dominant authorities.
The targets of dissent are not limited to governments, but also include economic, educational, religious, and social institutions that expect adherence to ideologies. In some cases, individuals and organizations engaged in disobedience may themselves engage in morally questionable activities. When is it ethical to rebel against authority? When do moral causes become more important than the rule of law or compliance with norms? What is the role of dissent in healthy democracies?  Should protest always be peaceful or is violence sometimes the right thing to do? When is “working within the system” the best thing to do?
Each year, the Center for Ethics sponsors an intensive series designed to encourage discussion and reflection on a timely, pertinent topic.  Center for Ethics programs are free and open to all members of the Muhlenberg campus and the local community. For more information on the series, visit http://www.muhlenberg.edu/main/aboutus/cfe/current_programs/index.html.
Fall programs sponsored by the Center for Ethics will include:
“Silencing Protest: On the Ethics and Politics of Social Theory”A Talk with Barbara Cruikshank, U. Mass AmherstTuesday, September 2, 2014 -- 7:30 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Muhlenberg Alumni Activism PanelPanelists include: Adrian Shanker ’09, Alex Lotorto ’09 and Kelly Howe ’03Friday, September 12, 2014 -- 2:00 p.m.Trumbower 130
"From the Party of Lincoln to the Party of Calhoun: The Supreme Court and Voting Rights in Historical Perspective"A talk by Scott Lemieux, St. Rose CollegeWednesday, September 17, 2014 – 7:30 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Screening of the film “The Molly Maguires”Monday, September 22, 2014 – 7:30 p.m.Recital Hall, Center for the Arts
"Resistance in the Pennsylvania Coal Country: Past and Present"A talk by Erik Loomis, U. Rhode IslandTuesday, September 23, 2014 – 7:30 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Tour of the Pioneer Tunnel Coal MineWednesday, September 24, 2014 – 11:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.
She SaidA performance by Ursula RuckerSaturday, October 11, 2014 – 8:00 p.m.Baker Theatre, Trexler Pavilion
“Radical Politics, State Repression, and the Problem of ‘Eco-Terrorism’”A talk by David Pellow, U. MinnesotaMonday, October 20, 2014 – 7:30 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
We.Are.Here.An evening of original performance by students, curated by Ursula RuckerTuesday, October 21, 2014 – 8:00 p.m.Seegers Union, Red Door Café
Title TBAA talk by Carrol Bogert, Human Rights WatchMonday, October 27, 2014 – 7:30 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
Title TBAA talk by Nancy Fraser, The New SchoolThursday, Nov 13, 2014 – 7:00 p.m.Miller Forum, Moyer Hall
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















