






2014: Ariana Small '15 explores public health through service work in Peru. | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Ariana Small '15 explores public health through service work in Peru.


Ariana Small spent part of her summer abroad through service work in South America.


	 Friday, August 8, 2014  03:19 PM

Ariana is a psychology major with minors in public health and Spanish and a member of the RJ Fellows honors program. This summer she combined her many academic interests by participating in service work abroad.
Ariana volunteered with the Foundation for International Medical Relief of Children (FIMRC) this summer in Huancayo, Peru, a region in the country’s central highlands. The non-profit organization’s mission is to provide access to medical care for underprivileged and medically underserved families around the world. Ariana’s work in Huancayo included hospital activities and health education projects that directly related to topics learned in her public health classes. She shadowed medical workers conducting rounds, observed surgeries and participated in health education initiatives to residents.‌
A particularly memorable experience involved providing fluoride treatment to elementary school children, most of whom had cavities and many of whom had damaged or missing teeth due to poor dental health. Ariana and her fellow volunteers not only taught the students proper dental hygiene mentods, but they also distributed toothbrushes and toothpaste to the children.

Ariana spent the semesters preceding the trip in preparation. FIMRC requires volunteers to support their trip financially, so Ariana became a familiar site on Muhlenberg campus, raising funds through t-shirt and bake sales.
Her international experience has enabled her to experience a different culture and to see sights very different from those of her hometown in Hoboken, NJ, including a 7-1/2 mile hike on the 14,000 ft. Nevado Huaytapallana mountain.

The experience was a life-changing one for Ariana, and she hopes to return to conduct further service work in December 2014. She'll be working with Muhlenberg's new FIMRC chapter to improve public health, both here in Allentown and abroad. In addition to dental health, the group will focus on focus on health education, physical and occupational therapy, psychology and education.
"Each semester, the chapter will fundraise to support health initiatives in Peru, raise awareness about these issues on campus, volunteer locally to match initiatives abroad, and have the opportunity to spend a week in Peru," Ariana says. "This upcoming semester, the chapter plans to create and present dental health education sessions in Allentown schools, while fundraising and collecting dental health donations to bring to Peru on our service trip."
Photos provided by Ariana Small '15.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















