






2014: Bauer named to Academic All-America first team | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Bauer named to Academic All-America first team


Tyler Bauer of the Muhlenberg men's track and field team was selected to the Academic All-America team for the second year in a row. 


	 Tuesday, June 24, 2014  02:42 PM

Muhlenberg rising senior Tyler Bauer was named to the Capital One Academic All-America Division III track and field/cross country first team, selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA). 
The Academic All-America nod is the second straight for Bauer, who moved up after making the second team last year. He is the third member of the Mule track and field program to earn Academic All-America honors in multiple years.
A double major in biology and music (music performance concentration), Bauer placed sixth in the javelin at the NCAA Outdoor Championships to earn All-America honors for the second year in a row. He is the first athlete in College history to be an All-American and an Academic All-American in back-to-back years.
The three-time Centennial Conference javelin champion holds the CC championship record of 209-3 and the school record of 214-5. Bauer was named Most Outstanding Performer of the CC meet for field events in 2013 and shared the CC scholar-athlete of the year award for the 2014 outdoor season.
Bauer is the ninth Academic All-America selection (the fifth to make the first team) in the history of the Mule men’s cross country/track and field program, all since 2005. Muhlenberg’s streak of six straight years with an Academic All-American is second among Division III men’s programs; Nebraska Wesleyan has a current streak of 10 years.
To be eligible for Academic All-America honors, a student-athlete must be a varsity starter or key reserve, maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.30 on a scale of 4.00, have reached sophomore athletic and academic standings at his current institution and be nominated by his sports information director. Since the program’s inception in 1952, CoSIDA has bestowed Academic All-America honors on nearly 20,000 student-athletes in Divisions I, II, III and NAIA covering all NCAA championship sports.    
Visit Muhlenberg Athletics          












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















