ï»¿



Muhlenberg Athletics
















Athletics






  Scoreboards: Fall 2014 | Winter 2014-15 | Past Years




















Latest News:

 











January 5: Men's basketball falls on last-second shot

King's made a runner with four-tenths of a second left to hand the Muhlenberg men's basketball team a 56-55 loss in its first game of 2015.






January 3: Gimbar wins title on Long Island

Senior Ian Gimbar (left) of the Muhlenberg wrestling team won the 197-pound title at the Long Island Open.






MuleVideo: Year in Review (14 for '14)

a video look at what 2014 an awesome year in Muhlenberg athletics






December 23: Five football players honored by ECAC

Four members of the Muhlenberg football team, including second-team pick Greg DeLade (right) were voted to the ECAC South All-Star team. Freshman Max Cepeda was named rookie of the year.





December 22: Muhlenberg sweeps weekly basketball awards

Muhlenberg seniors Malique Killing and Nicole Pepe were named Centennial Conference basketball players of the week.





December 21: Wrestling drops close match at Madison Square Garden


The Muhlenberg wrestling team fell 25-17 to Southern Maine in the third annual Grapple at the Garden in a match that came down to the final bout.






December 20: Long named a first-team All-American

Muhlenberg senior Michael Long (left) was named a first-team All-American by D3football.com.






MuleVideo: basketball vs. Washington

Service Electric TV2 recaps the Muhlenberg basketball doubleheader sweep of Washington College.






December 18: Boll named to all-star team

Junior Katherine Boll (left) of the Muhlenberg volleyball team was an ECAC South first-team all-star.






December 17: Hot-shooting men's basketball earns first CC win

The Muhlenberg men's basketball team shot nearly 60 percent from the field and defeated Washington College, 88-82, for its first Centennial Conference win of the season. Freshman Owen McLeod (right) had one of three Mule dunks in the game.






December 17: Women's basketball wins in final game of 2014

The Muhlenberg women's basketball team went into the holiday break with an 82-51 win against Washington College in its first Centennial Conference home game of the season. Senior Emily Lesher (left) had five of the Mules' 24 assists.






MuleVideo: men's basketball vs. DeSales (TV2)

Service Electric TV2 recaps Muhlenberg's 86-57 win against DeSales in men's basketball ... plus some bonus footage.






December 15: Dotzman named to All-America team

Senior Lance Dotzman (right) of the Muhlenberg men's soccer team earned All-America honors from the National Soccer Coaches Association of America.






December 13: Men's basketball aces post-finals test

The Muhlenberg men's basketball team earned local bragging rights with an 86-57 win against DeSales in its first game after final exams. Freshman Nick Rindock (left) scored a career-high 18 points and tied a school record by making all five of his three-point attempts.





December 13: Cold shooting plagues women's basketball

The Muhlenberg women's basketball team struggled with its shooting in its first game after finals and lost at home to DeSales, 64-51.





December 11: Five named to men's soccer all-region team

A record-tying five members of the Muhlenberg men's soccer team were named to the NSCAA All-Mid-Atlantic Region team.





December 10: Seven honored for sportsmanship

Seven Muhlenberg athletes were named to the Fall All-Centennial Conference Sportsmanship Team. 





December 9: Topping named regional coach of the year

Sean Topping was named NSCAA Mid-Atlantic Region coach of the year after leading the Muhlenberg men's soccer team to the "Sweet 16."






MuleVideo: Plays of the Week

the top 8 plays for the week of December 1-December 7, 2014






December 8: Two named to football all-region team

Two members of the Muhlenberg football team were named to the D3football.com All-South Region team. Senior kicker Connor Winter (right) was a second-team selection.





December 6: Basketball teams swept at Johns Hopkins

The Muhlenberg basketball teams were both defeated in a doubleheader at Johns Hopkins, the women falling 63-46 and the men 87-77.





December 5: Three wrestlers win bouts at Petrofes Invitational

Three members of the Muhlenberg wrestling team won at least one bout against tough competition at the Messiah Petrofes Invitational.






December 4: Women's basketball surges past Dickinson

Senior Nicole Pepe (left) scored all of her game-high 14 points in the second half as the Muhlenberg women's basketball team evened its record with a 59-40 win at Dickinson.






December 3: Wrestling to compete in Madison Square Garden

The Muhlenberg wrestling team will compete alongside some of the best collegiate programs in the country in the third "Grapple at the Garden" at Madison Square Garden in New York City.






December 2: Auvil named a first-team Academic All-American

Junior Bryan Auvil (left) of the Muhlenberg football team was selected to the Capital One NCAA Division III Academic All-America first team.





December 2: Men's basketball falls in last minute

The Muhlenberg men's basketball team overcame a 10-point second-half deficit to take a lead with 1:01 left, but Swarthmore scored the final five points to pull out a 70-66 win.






MuleVideo: men's basketball vs. Moravian (TV2)

Service Electric TV2 recaps Muhlenberg's 84-77 win against Moravian in men's basketball ... plus some bonus footage.





December 1: Thirty-Nine named to Academic Honor Roll

A record 39 Muhlenberg fall athletes were named to the Centennial Conference Academic Honor Roll.






November 30: Bigs lead men's basketball past Moravian

The Muhlenberg men's basketball team used its height advantage to defeat Moravian, 84-77. Sophomore John Hunter (left) scored a career-high 19 points.






November 25: Fifteen earn All-CC football honors

The Muhlenberg football team placed a record 15 players on the All-Centennial Conference team. Junior Bryan Auvil earned the league's Scholar-Athlete Award, and freshman Max Cepeda (right) was named rookie of the year.





November 25: Men's basketball drops CC opener

The Muhlenberg men's basketball team lost at Haverford, 80-77, in its first Centennial Conference game of the season.





November 25: Defending champs beat women's basketball

The Muhlenberg women's basketball team lost at defending Centennial Conference champion Haverford, 61-40.






November 24: Two play in field hockey all-star game

Sierra Lenker and Kayleigh Thies represented Muhlenberg at the National Field Hockey Coaches Association senior all-star game.






November 22: Last-second field goal ends football season

The Muhlenberg football team lost to Widener, 36-35, on a field goal with 10.2 seconds left in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.
Sophomore Nick Palladino (right) threw for a career-high 388 yards and was responsible for all five touchdowns.





November 22: Men's soccer season ends in Sweet 16

A memorable season for the Muhlenberg men's soccer team came to a close with a 2-0 loss to Tufts in the NCAA "Sweet 16."





November 22: Flank records best finish at NCAAs

Jaryd Flank came in 92nd at the NCAA Championships, recording the best finish ever by a member of the Muhlenberg men's cross country team.





November 22: Basketball teams fall in Scotty Wood championships

Both Muhlenberg basketball teams came up short in the Scotty Wood Tournament championship games, the women losing 77-55 to eighth-ranked Scranton and the men 68-65 to Widener.





November 21: Hoffmann, Dotzman named to Academic All-America team

Muhlenberg men's soccer players Tommy Hoffmann (first team) and Lance Dotzman (third team) were named Academic All-Americans.






November 21: Football NCAA preview

The Muhlenberg football teams travels to undefeated Widener for the first round of the NCAA Tournament.





November 21: Basketball teams roll into Scotty Wood finals

Both Muhlenberg basketball teams advanced to the Scotty Wood Tournament championship round. The women defeated Albertus Magnus, 74-42, and the men posted an 88-43 win against Cairn.





November 20: Men's soccer NCAA Sweet 16 preview (video)

The Muhlenberg men's soccer team hosts Tufts in the NCAA Division III "Sweet 16."





November 20: Cross country NCAA Championships preview

Sophomore Jaryd Flank is the first sophomore on the Muhlenberg cross country team to qualify for the NCAA Championships as an individual.






November 19: Women's basketball wins CC opener by 30

The Muhlenberg women's basketball team began Centennial Conference play with a 95-65 win at Swarthmore. Senior Laura Gregory (left) had 10 points, six rebounds and four assists.






MuleVideo: Plays of the Week

the top 10 plays for the week of November 10-November 16, 2014 in the sports of field hockey, football, men's soccer and men's and women's basketball





November 18: Scotty Wood Tournament preview

Both Muhlenberg basketball teams will try to defend their 2013 Scotty Wood Tournament titles in fields that include teams that have won previously.





November 17: Men's soccer to host sectionals

For the second time in five years, the road to the NCAA Division III men's soccer "Final Four" goes through Allentown.





November 17: Two earn all-region field hockey honors

Muhlenberg field hockey players Kayleigh Thies (first team) and Claudia Theriault (second team) were selected to the All-South Region team.





November 17: Wrestlers defeat Division I opponents

Three members of the Muhlenberg wrestling team defeated Division I opponents at the East Stroudsburg Open.






November 16: Men's soccer advances to Sweet 16 on PKs

After playing a scoreless draw against Catholic, the Muhlenberg men's soccer team won 5-3 in a shootout to advance to the NCAA Sweet 16 for the fourth time in program history. Junior Chris Russomano (left) made the fourth of five perfect penalty kick tries for the Mules.




November 16: Football, Flank headed to NCAAs

November 16: Men's basketball completes 2-0 opening weekend

November 15: Early scoring sends men's soccer into second round

November 15: Football finishes regular season 9-1

November 15: Flank earns all-region honors

November 15: Basketball teams start season with close games

November 14: NCAA men's soccer preview

November 14: Women's basketball season preview (video)

November 14: Men's basketball season preview (video)

November 13: Dotzman, Topping land top Centennial men's soccer honors

November 13: Killing named to preseason All-America team

November 13: Boll earns all-region nod

November 12: Three named to All-Centennial Conference women's soccer team

MuleVideo: Men's soccer selection show (TV2)

November 12: Field hockey, women's soccer fall in ECACs

November 11: Two volleyball players named to All-Centennial team

MuleVideo: Plays of the Week

November 10: Men's soccer to host NCAA games

November 10: Field hockey places four on All-CC team

November 10: Field hockey, women's soccer earn ECAC bids

November 9: CC CHAMPS!!

November 9: Volleyball falls in five-set championship match

November 9: Freshmen wrestlers break into win column at Ursinus

November 9: Palladino named player of the week

November 8: Men's soccer reaches championship game

November 8: Volleyball advances to championship match

November 8: Football wins fifth straight on Senior Day

November 8: Field hockey defeated in semis

November 7: Men's soccer playoff preview

November 7: Volleyball playoff preview

November 6: Two named Academic All-District

November 6: Field hockey playoff preview

November 6: Men's soccer into top 10; football and field hockey ranked

November 5: Women's soccer falls in first-round game

MuhlBox: Women's Lacrosse Fall Ball

November 4: Women's soccer playoff preview

MuleVideo: Plays of the Week

November 3: Football re-enters top 25







Skip to Navigation

















