






Fraternity and Sorority Life | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeS.O.L.E. Fraternity and Sorority Life 






Fraternity and Sorority Life














Fraternity and Sorority Life











AccreditationAlumniCouncils and OrganizationsExpansion & ExtensionFormsFraternity and Sorority TerminologyHazing ReportingPoliciesRecruitmentResources











Home
Student LifeS.O.L.E. Fraternity and Sorority Life 











Welcome!
Since 1867, Fraternity and Sorority Life at Muhlenberg College has been an opportunity for students to engage in personal and professional development through the relationships derived from and the values consistent with the organizations of our Greek community. Muhlenberg currently recognizes three National Interfraternity Council (NIC) organizations, four National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) organizations, and one National Multicultural Greek Council (NMGC) organization. 
Being a member of a fraternity or sorority provides a host of benefits including the opportunity to develop and refine leadership skills, engage in the community, participate in philanthropic projects, and form lifelong friendships within an inter/national brotherhood or sisterhood. Members of the fraternity & sorority community can boast of involvement in practically every facet of campus life and support many campus initiatives. The chapters strive to provide for their members' growth-oriented opportunities and experiences that are consistent with the mission of Muhlenberg College.
While each organization has a unique set of values, all share similar philosophies and guiding principles that surround: building character, improving leadership skills, serving the community, and developing life-long friendships.
 
Mission
Fraternity & Sorority Life at Muhlenberg College is dedicated to the intellectual and social development of students through membership in Greek-letter organizations.
Through a commitment to integrity, diversity, achievement, civility, and life-long learning, Fraternity & Sorority Life strives to produce men and women of competence and maturity who will contribute positively to the world in which they live.
 
Contact:
Natalie Shaw,
Assistant Director of Student Organizations, Leadership, and Engagement
NatalieShaw@muhlenberg.edu
 
 
 
 
 

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















