








Mule Sports Daily - July 29, 2008













    
		








Tuesday, July 29, 2008

 May 30 |
	Summer












					 


GOFF PROMOTED TO ASSOCIATE A.D.



Corey Goff has been promoted to associate athletic director from assistant athletic director at Muhlenberg College.

In his new role, Goff will supervise all internal operations, including assuming greater responsibility in the areas of financial, personnel and facilities management, and will serve as the acting athletics director in the absence of the director of athletics.

Goff was named an assistant athletic director in 2003 and served as interim athletic director for six months in 2006. In addition to his administrative duties, he also serves as the athletic department’s summer camp coordinator and head baseball coach.

Goff was an assistant football coach at Muhlenberg from 2000 to 2005, serving as offensive coordinator the last five years and helping the Mules win four consecutive Centennial Conference co-championships (2001-04). He stepped away from football to
take the head baseball reins in 2006, and in his second season led Muhlenberg to 20 wins and a berth in the CC playoffs.

A 1995 graduate of Susquehanna University, Goff has previous coaching experience at Susquehanna, University at Albany, Dartmouth College, Westminster (Ga.) Schools and Wyoming (Pa.) Seminary.

In other staffing news, Muhlenberg has hired a head cheerleading coach, assistant coaches in football, field hockey and women’s lacrosse, and an assistant sports information director.

Jacole Fletcher, former cheerleader, dancer and dance instructor, has been hired as head cheerleading coach.

Fletcher comes to Muhlenberg with 16 years of dance experience from IEM Dance Ensemble, with presentations ranging from modern ballet to hip hop. She has also instructed hip hop and jazz classes and choreographed for the Fels Center Dance squad.

Fletcher also has interests in singing, acting and directing.

James Lastowski joins the Muhlenberg football program to coach the tight ends.

Lastowski graduated in 2007 from Mass.-Dartmouth, where he did not play due to injury. He spent last football season as a graduate assistant coach at Massachusetts Maritime Academy. Lastowski also has four years coaching experience at Bishop Stang (Mass.) High School.

Briana Banks joins the Muhlenberg field hockey coaching staff with four years Division I playing experience and five years of coaching experience.

Banks is a graduate of the University of Maine, where she was a four-year starter and a recipient of the Scholar-Athlete Achievement Award.

After graduating in 2000 with a degree in kinesiology and physical education, Banks became a varsity coach at Pennridge (Pa.) High School, where she started an indoor and middle school field hockey program.  In 2004 she moved on as varsity coach and health and physical education teacher at Palmerton (Pa.) High School, where she took the 3-17 team to an 8-8-2 record in two years.

New women’s lacrosse assistant Cara Keating has spent the past two years coaching for her alma mater, West Morris Central (N.J.) High School. Keating headed up the junior varsity lacrosse program and assisted on the varsity level. She also coached the junior varsity soccer program. During her high school playing career, Keating received all-state honors in soccer and All-America honors in lacrosse. 

Keating graduated from Penn State in 2005 with a degree in psychology and recently completed her master’s in counseling and psychological studies at Seton Hall University. She played two years for the varsity Penn State lacrosse team.

Kelley Freund is new to the Muhlenberg staff as assistant sports information director. A 2007 graduate of James Madison University, Freund spent six months as a publications assistant for the Women’s Sports Foundation. Freund ran track and cross country in high school and has since run four half-marathons.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




