








Mule Sports Daily - August 29, 2009













    
		








Saturday, August 29, 2009

 Summer Stories |
	August 29
30
31 | 
	September 1












					 

Season Preview

balanced volleyball team looks to playoffs


If the Muhlenberg volleyball team can cover the court as well it covered the continent of Europe last spring, it will have a successful season.

Three seniors who studied abroad in Rome, Paris and Edinburgh are among the eight returning players for the Mules, who open their 2009 season Tuesday night at DeSales. Their first home match is the following
Tuesday, Sept. 8, vs. Elizabethtown.

“I was actually excited for preseason this year so I could play 



Cangelosi needs 88 digs to become the 10th Mule with 1,000 in her career.



together with my teammates again,” said Christina Cangelosi, who spent her spring semester in Rome. “I played over the summer with some friends, but it’s not the same.”

More traveling is in store for the Mules, who have a trip to Texas slated for Fall Break. The Lone Star State may be in the team’s travel plans, but having a lone star is not in its on-court plans.

With two all-conference hitters, four other experienced hitters and their top defensive player all returning, Muhlenberg has a balanced attack that will feature contributions from many players.

“We have a lot of players who can play all around. Anyone can 



Lee reached double figures in kills 11 times last season, with a high of 18 three times.



step up to play up front or step back to play in the back row,” said Cangelosi, who started at libero last year and was sixth in the CC in digs per set (3.79). “We don’t just depend on one defensive player to get the balls or one offensive player to get all the kills.

“It’s a team dynamic, and when we play as a team is when we play best.”

Heading the list of returning hitters is senior Phylicia Lee, who was a second-team All-CC selection after leading 
the Mules and ranking ninth in the CC in kills per set (2.91). She also was ninth in the CC in service aces, averaging 0.40 a set. 

Sophomore Davi Gordon also received All-CC recognition, earning honorable mention. She was third in the conference in blocks at 0.78 per set and averaged 1.54 kills per set. 

Senior Brittany Williams, in her second year as a team captain, looks to finish with another solid season. Last year she led the team in service aces (41) and was second in digs (2.79 per set), third in kills (1.86) and fifth in blocks (0.29).

Muhlenberg is deep in the middle, with several players expected to compete for significant playing time. Sophomore Jackie Price enjoyed an outstanding rookie season, ranking fifth in the CC in blocks (0.73 per set). The Mules welcome back senior Amy Cohen, who led the team in blocks (0.78 per set) in 2007 before taking a year off to study abroad. And talented junior Caitlin Dombkowski could be on the verge of a breakthrough season.

How well the hitters do will depend quite a bit on freshman setter Bryn Baker, who takes over for an all-conference player. “It’s definitely an important position, and she has stepped up,” remarked Cangelosi. “She works hard, hustles and communicates. She’s off to a good start with the hitters in timing and chemistry.”

Muhlenberg hopes to keep up the chemistry to earn a Centennial Conference playoff berth for the first time since 2001. The Mules took a step in the right direction last year, going 17-10 for their most wins in seven years. They finished 5-5 in the CC and were in contention for a playoff berth on the last day of the regular season.

“We definitely want to make the playoffs,” said Cangelosi. The other coaches believe Muhlenberg will make it, picking the Mules fifth in the preseason poll. “It’s hard because it’s such a balanced conference. You can’t take any team for granted.”
















Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




