






AC Policy | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeHousing ServicesAC Policy 






AC Policy














AC Policy











AC PolicyBed Bug InformationBicycle Racks @ BergEarly Arrival RequestsFurnishingsHousing ApplicationsKitchensLaundryLiving OptionsMartin Luther "Underground"Refrigerator and Microwave InformationRoom and Furniture DimensionsRoommate InformationStudy LoungesTechnology











Home
Student LifeHousing & Residence LifeHousing ServicesAC Policy 













Muhlenberg College Air Conditioner Policy
Purpose The purpose of this policy is to provide information for the Muhlenberg College community on the requirements for eligibility for air conditioning in student housing, the guidelines for window units and the process for having a unit installed. PolicyA request for air conditioning with appropriate documentation must be submitted to Student Health Services by uploading the documentation though the PyraMed Health Portal. All requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and documentation of a need for air conditioning does not guarantee that your request will be approved. Also, there is no guarantee that you will be housed in an area equipped with central air. If you select to live in a residence hall without central air, you need to provide your own window unit. Requirements and Process Documentation from the physician providing care is required indicating a need for air conditioning. The student or the student's physician must provide documentation to Student Health Services by uploading the documentation though the PyraMed Health Portal. Approvals are determined on a case by case basis by the Director of Student Health Services, and are dependent upon the documentation received relative to the severity of illness and the availability of rooms that are centrally air conditioned or have the capability of supporting a window AC unit. The documentation must include the diagnosis, treatment plan, and any additional information that would support the need for this intervention. Physician notes on a prescription such as "Please provide an air conditioner for my patient due to allergies" will not be accepted as documenting the need. Priority will be given to those students who have provided documented evidence of exacerbation of chronic respiratory diseases including asthma, chronic medical conditions, and those receiving allergy injections on a regular basis. Documentation needs to be up dated each year to maintain eligibility. All request must be received by June 5th for the following academic year. The College uses ADA standards to determine pre-lottery housing. Simply needing air conditioning is not a reason to be housed before the campus body. Residence Halls with Central Air Benfer Hall - 8 person suite styled building, once heat is on AC does not work, suites need to be filled in order to live in this building, houses upper-class students Taylor Hall - double rooms with heat and AC systems that work independently, houses upper-class students Robertson and South Halls - 4 person suite styled building, systems work independently, suites need to be filled in order to live in these buildings, A/C outdoor unit does not work when outdoor air temperature is 47F or lower, houses upper-class students The Village - 4 and 5 person suite styled building, systems work independently, suites need to be filled in order to live in these buildings, houses upper-class students Walz Hall - double rooms, once heat is on AC does not work on first 3 floors, houses first year students
2201 Chew St - 4 person suite styled building, systems work independently, suites need to be filled in order to live in these buildings, houses upper-class students
Prosser Hall Ground Annex.
East Hall- double,single and triple rooms with heat and AC systems that work independently.
Residence Halls where window units are installed in every room (student does not need to provide one unit)
Martin Luther Hall
Prosser Hall (except for ground annex- please see above)
Residence Halls where window units can be installed and must be provided by the student
Brown Hall
Alpha Chi Omega
Delta Zeta
Phi Mu
Phi Sigma Sigma
Delta Tau Delta
Zeta Beta Tau
Mile houses/apartments without central air conditioning or pre-installed units and with windows that can accommodate a window unit
Window Unit Requirements:
No higher than 14" No more than 120 volts No more than 7000 BTUs Must be Energy Star rated (Read the President's Greening Committee Statement regarding this requirement) Need extension cord that is 12-3 wire with a ground for A/C units. The College does not provide extension cords. Installation Information In order to ensure window units are installed correctly, the Plant Operations staff must install them. Once you have been approved by the Health Center, you will receive an email reminding you of what needs to occur. Requests approved once the school year has started will normally be installed within a 3 business day period.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















