






Requests for Maintenance | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesPlant OperationsRequests for Maintenance 






Requests for Maintenance














Requests for Maintenance











Work Order (on Campus)FAQsSustainable InitiativesRecyclingSuggestion FormCampus MapRequests for MaintenanceContractor's AgreementPolicies and Procedures











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesPlant OperationsRequests for Maintenance 













Requests for Maintenance Service or Other Related Work
Jim Bolton Director of Plant Operations
The Department of Plant Operations is responsible for providing students, faculty, staff and visitors to the Muhlenberg College campus with an aesthetically pleasing, efficiently operated, safe and well maintained environment. The purpose of the memorandum is to describe the manner in which requests for service or work are to be made. This will assist the Department in maintaining the College in an acceptable manner and to perform as much work as the budget will permit in an orderly and timely fashion.
Any campus employee may request the Department of Plant Operations to perform work of a maintenance nature. Such requests for service shall be made on-line with the use of the Plant Operations Work Order Entry Form. It can be accessed via the Muhlenberg College start up web page, under Departmental Forms. In an emergency during normal working hours, a request for service shall be made to the Plant Operations' Office, campus extension #3400 and after hours to Campus Safety and Security at #3110. Individual making the request should provide the following to the Plant Operations office: name,telephone number, location of problem and description of needed service or repair.
A request for other types of work, apart from routine maintenance or repair, shall be initiated as follows:

Complete Section I of a Request for Estimate & Project Authorization Form and provide such form to the individual's department chair or manager for review and consideration. (See enclosed form.)
If approved, the department chair or manager should sign Section II of the form and forward the request to the appropriate Vice President/Dean for review and consideration.
If the appropriate Vice President/Dean approves the request, that individual should sign Section II of the form and forward the document to the Plant Operations Department.
Plant Operations will review the work and determine if the request requires review by other campus individuals or groups. If review is needed, Plant Operations will refer the authorization form to the appropriate person for their review and consideration. Plant Operations will not perform any work or initiate any contracts for until the required reviews are completed.
If all persons and/or groups required to review the authorization approve and budget approval is received from the Vice President of Finance, Plant Operations will issue a work order to perform the work as requested. If the request is not approved it will be returned to the individual who initiated the request.*Request for Review/Consideration Form



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















