






Wellness | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesHuman ResourcesCurrent EmployeesWellness 






Wellness














Wellness











Meet the CommitteeHuman ResourcesHealth and Wellness Information











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesHuman ResourcesCurrent EmployeesWellness 















Mission Statement
The mission of the Muhlenberg College Wellness Program is to provide greater health awareness by cultivating an environment designed to support healthy lifestyle choices for both our employees and their families.
 
February Photo Contest Winners :


Physical HealthMental/Emotional Health







Remember to get outside and exercise this spring break
Tunnel Vision is Lackawanna State Park


















Photo Contest



View all photos submitted for our February photo challenge.




View Photos here










 






Wellness Opportunities
Check out some of our current and annual wellness events and opportunities.















Fitness Classes



Fitness Classes for the College Community are designed to teach fitness through various levels of training by offering  a variety of different classes, days and times.




For More Information


















Pool Schedule



Open swim hours for the 25-meter swimming pool




For More Information


















Muhlenberg Community Dance Center



The Department of Theatre & Dance offers high quality, non-credit dance and movement education courses for teens and adults. Take a look at what we have to offer!




Learn about classes


















Know Your Numbers - Biometric Screening 



Employees on the College’s Medical Plan are eligible for a Biometric Screening and will receive a $10/month Wellness Credit. The Health Screening includes the following tests; full lipid panel (Total Cholesterol, HDL Cholesterol, LDL Cholesterol, Triglyceride), Blood Glucose and Blood Pressure.You will receive your health screening results shortly after the screening. Please be assured that your health information will remain confidential. ....Look for an email in November/December















Blood Drive



The College will host annual mobile blood drives on campus for students and college employees.  Donations benefit local Miller Keystone Blood Center.















Mobile Mammography



Mobile Mammography comes to Muhlenberg once a year, usually in October, and is open to employees, spouses and retirees free of charge.  ....Look for an email in October















LVAIC Movement Challenge



Join Muhlenberg and other LVAIC Institutions in a Movement Challenge. Each week, the results will be tallied by institution. Prizes will be randomly awarded to participants each week, usually in October




For more information


















Employee Spring Fling



Raffles and prizes,Minute to Win it games, free food, lawn games, brain teasers, scavenger hunt, massage chairs, and more….

Look for an email in April/May for more information.




Info from 2019's event










 






Past Events















Financial Wellness during COVID-19



Kindra Walker, Lecturer, provides information regarding Financial Wellness During COVID-19




Full Recording


















Runner's World Half and Festival



Muhlenberg College employees get 15 percent off the 5K (3.1 miles), 10K (6.2 miles), half-marathon (13.1 miles) and 3.8-mile trail race, or any of the combination events (5K and 10K! 5K, 10K and half! Or all four!).




Info about the event



















Muhlenberg Goes Wild



Faculty, staff and their families are invited to the Wildlands Conservancy for a special Muhlenberg College event - Muhlenberg Goes Wild! Space is limited due to venue capacity. 
Activities will include a scavenger hunt, wildlife presentations, guided walks and hikes (all ages and abilities), stream invertebrates with Erika Iyengar (Biology), self-serve craft stations, campfire with smores and more!  A full schedule will be posted soon. 




More information of Pool Wildlands Conservancy


















Cupid Chase 5K



It's not too late to start training for a 5k or get moving on your resolutions!  Please check out this wonderful opportunity to get out and complete a 5k through Allentown while supporting a great cause!




Register here









 


 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















