






Message to Faculty | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesInfluenzaMessage to Faculty 






Message to Faculty














Message to Faculty











General InformationMessage to StudentsMessage to FacultyMessage to StaffHealth CenterDean Of StudentsResidential Services











Home
Student LifeHealth ServicesInfluenzaMessage to Faculty 











January 15, 2018
 
Dear Faculty,
As you are most likely aware, flu activity continues to be widespread across the nation and flu activity continues to be on the rise.  According to the CDC, most of the influenza infections are caused by influenza A, subtype H3N2 strain.  Years when H3N2 is circulating tend to be periods when the vaccine is less effective.  However, it is still recommended to receive the flu vaccine, even if less than an ideal match, as it will still provide some protection against the flu.
 
To reduce flu transmission on our campus, the college is:  
 


Using a cleaning product that is effective against the flu


Wiping down common areas in residence halls at least twice daily


Cleaning more frequently in other high traffic areas of campus


Posting signs in the residence halls about the virus and how to prevent its spread


Monitoring the spread of the virus on campus


Encouraging students with the flu to practice social isolation by going home, not attending classes or group activities


 
We encourage you to take the following measures to prevent the transmission of flu on our campus:
 


Get a flu shot


Clean your hands frequently with soap and warm water or use alcohol based hand sanitizers when water is not available.  


Avoid contact with people who are sick


Cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze with a tissue or your sleeve.


Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.


Get adequate sleep and good nutrition.  Do not smoke or drink alcohol.


If you have the flu, please do not come to campus.


 
For students:  in addition to giving the typical flu medical advice, Health Services is instructing students with flu symptoms that they should:
 


Go home, if possible.


Not attend class until fever free for 24 hours without the use of fever reducing medicine (such as Advil or Tylenol)


Notify each professor that they are missing class due to flu symptoms.  Students are told they responsible for missed work.


 
In turn, we are asking professors to do the following:
 


Monitor students in class for influenza like illness (maybe as simple as a student who looks ill or feverish in class) and reinforce the concept self-isolation with the sick students. Remind students that in balancing public health and class attendance, public health must carry the greatest weight.


Notify Health Services (484-664-3199) if there is significant absenteeism due to the flu (so that we can monitor flu activity)


In order to monitor flu activity on campus, encourage students with the flu to notify the Dean of Students Office by completing a short form located here.


Establish a reasonable timeline and means (email or telephone) through which students can inform the professor that they have flu-like symptoms and will be missing classes.


Provide students with a reasonable opportunity to make-up missed work.


Do not ask or expect to receive a note from Health Services regarding missed classes or any type of physician note regarding absences due to the flu.  Again, the CDC recommendations are directed towards mitigation; not all individuals with the flu will need to seek medical care.


 
Thanks for your support with this.  Please contact Health Services with any concerns.  Wishing you a healthy 2018!
 
Sincerely,
Kathy HarringProvost
Allison WilliamsVice President for Campus Life and Dean of Students
Brynnmarie Dorsey, CRNPExecutive Director, Health and Counseling Services
 

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















