






Grants | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Student LifeStudent ServicesFinancial HardshipGrants 






Grants













Grants











Academic Conference FundsM.I.L.A. GrantsLearn More About Grant Opportunities











Home
Student LifeStudent ServicesFinancial HardshipGrants 











Grants & Funding
As a result of both College funding and gifts from alumni of the College, we are able to provide two grant opportunities for students. Both of these grants are need-based and when applications are submitted, student's financial need is vetted with the Office of Financial Aid.  We encourage students to complete these applications as thoroughly and timely as possible.  Your application will go directly to the Dean of Students and will be reviewed by a committee to award grants.
Learn More About Grant Opportunities
Emergency Grant - This need-based grant is intended to provide one time relief for a specific student financial hardship or emergency. Some examples of items students may need support with include transportation home in an emergency, the cost of a uniform for a new job, unexpected medical cost, an immediate need for personal, technological*, or academic items. More specific information is available on the application.
Apply for an Emergency Grant
*Note - If you are in need of a computer for long term usage and are unable to purchase due to financial hardship, you may apply for an Emergency Grant. If approved, you will be provided with an HP laptop that has been selected by our office as it meets the needs of our student body and is fully serviced with a 3 year warranty.
Experiential Learning Grant - This need-based grant is intended to assist students in engaging in the fullness of the co-curricular and community aspects of the College.  Students are eligible for this grant up to two times per year or for up to $500 per year.  Examples of the use of this fund include a fee associated with a club or organization you wish to join, a field trip or excursion being offered through the College that has a cost associated with it, travel to academic and co-curricular national conferences and research presentations, fees associated with training programs, certifications, and other experiences that complement your academic or professional growth.
Apply for an Experiential Learning Grant

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















