








Mule Sports Daily - February 4, 2011













    
		







Friday, February 4, 2011

			 January 31  |
			February 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28 | March 1












					 

super bowl XLV preview


Although Muhlenberg is a little distance from Pittsburgh and even farther from Green Bay, at least two Mule athletes will be cheering on their hometown teams
when Super Bowl XLV is played on Sunday. Below they weigh in on the big game.






Danielle Winston

Women’s Tennis
Milwaukee, Wis.


How far do you live from Green Bay? 2½  hours.

How many games have you gone to? I’ve been to three games with my Dad.

Who is your favorite player? After last week’s touchdown celebration, I’d have to say BJ Raji. But I’ve been a big Clay Matthews fan this whole season. How can you not love those locks?  But really, he is the leader of the defense.  I would be absolutely terrified to go anywhere near him on a football field.

Is it hard being at Muhlenberg among so many Eagles, Giants and Patriots fans? When I got back to school, the Eagles and Giants fans were not so happy with me. And I got a lot of crap wearing my Packers jersey to the dining hall the other day. But it doesn’t bother me that much — I’ll stand by my Packers no matter what!

Have you ever worn a Cheesehead? Of course.  You can’t be a Packers fan if you’ve never worn a Cheesehead!
 
What do you think of Terrible Towels? Terrible Towels = a terrible game coming for the Steelers.  There is nothing that compares a Cheesehead.

What does it mean to you and your family and friends back home to have the Packers in the Super Bowl? It’s all about tradition. The Packers were the first team to win the Super Bowl.  The Super Bowl trophy was named after our coach, Vince Lombardi.  The Packers are a legendary team, so everyone in Wisconsin is pretty pumped that the Packers are back where they started.  From the North of Wisconsin to the South of Wisconsin (where I’m from), everybody has united throughout the playoffs.  If you scroll through my Facebook, just about everyone from my high school has a Packer player as their profile picture.
The past few years have been pretty rough for Packer fans — some tough playoff losses, plus all of the Brett Favre drama.  So having the Packers in the Super Bowl this year is awesome, not to mention a slap in Favre’s face. 

Are you doing anything special for the Super Bowl? The last time the Packers were in the Super Bowl I was in second grade and dyed my hair green.  I went home from school early that day because my best friend told me my hair looked like mold. I won’t be doing that this year.  This year for the Super Bowl, my friends and I will go with me to Stooges for the $10 all-you-can-eat buffet.

What is your prediction for the big game? All season long, when Rodgers scores a touchdown, he puts on an imaginary “championship belt” as his victory celebration. He has it right — the Packers are going to be the champions this year.  Their defense is going to carry them, plus Rodgers is playing the best he has ever played. Packers, 23-20.

Anything else you’d like to say … Once you go Pack, you never go back!


 


 


 




Dan DeCaria

Baseball
Murrysville, Pa.


How far do you live from Pittsburgh? Murrysville is an eastern suburb of Pittsburgh about 15 miles or so from downtown. 
 
How many games have you gone to? I’ve been to a handful of regular season and preseason games. Most notable game was Jerome Bettis’ last game in Heinz Field before their Super Bowl XL championship run.

Who is your favorite player? Gotta go with James Harrison. Nobody more intimidating in the league and the guy has an endless motor.
 
Is it hard being at Muhlenberg among so many Eagles, Giants and Patriots fans? Ehh it’s not so hard when you can rub Lombardi trophies in their faces haha. There’s a few of us Steelers fans out here; Steeler Nation is everywhere. Eagles, Giants, Patriots and Packers fans should be thankful they can observe Steelers fans on what real fandom is all about.
 
Have you ever waved a Terrible Towel? Of course I waved the official emblem of Steeler Nation. Have had one hung up in my room every year here.  
 
What do you think of Cheeseheads? Why anyone would want to wear a big foam cheese on their head is beyond me. What’s more intimidating, 65,000 towels waving in unison or 65,000 people with big cheeses on their heads? That's a no brainer to me. 
 
What does it mean to you and your family and friends back home to have the Steelers in the Super Bowl? It means everything. Pittsburgh has been and always will be a football town. For us the Steelers are more than just a football team, they are a representation of the entire city. Go down to the Strip District just outside of downtown and you'll see what it’s all about. 
 
Are you doing anything special for the Super Bowl? Probably just going to watch it with some of my buddies at their house. I’d love to go back home and watch it down in the South Side, but I don't think my teachers or Coach Goff would be too much in favor of that idea.
 
What is your prediction for the big game? Gotta go with my Steelers 24-20. Got the experience factor, have the 'Steel Curtain' D, and I just think when it comes down to the end Big Ben will come up with the clutch plays to win. He has the track record – Green Bay fans remember the conclusion of last year’s matchup with the Steelers.  
 
Anything else you’d like to say … Black and Yellow Black and Yellow.















Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




