








Mule Sports Daily - June 9, 2011













    
		







Thursday, June 9, 2011

			 May 31  |
			June 1
 2
 3
 9
 10
 21
 30













					 


deangelis named to academic all-americathird team




Rising senior Brittany DeAngelis of the Muhlenberg field hockey team was named to the 2011 Capital One Academic All-America® At-Large Team, as selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA). 
A third-team selection, DeAngelis is the first Academic All-American for the field hockey program since Andrea Dowhower in 1986. She is the third Mule athlete (along with basketball player Spencer Liddic and softball player Ashley Brewer) to receive Academic All-America honors in the last four months. Two more could join the list when the cross country/track and field teams are released in two weeks.
A double major in business administration and psychology, DeAngelis started all 16 games at back for the Mules in 2010, earning All-Centennial Conference honorable mention after leading the team and ranking third in the CC with six defensive saves. Her biggest save came when she hustled to keep a ball from crossing into the cage with 12 minutes left at McDaniel, preserving a 2-1 win. DeAngelis ranks fifth on Muhlenberg’s all-time list with 11 career defensive saves. 
Off the field, DeAngelis is a member of Psi Chi, the international honor society for psychology, and is treasurer for Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership honor society. She also is head of public relations and advertising for Student Athlete Mentors (SAM), a program in which student-athletes serve as a role models and mentors for their peers. 
At Muhlenberg’s Honors Convocation in May, DeAngelis received two awards: the Paul M. White '27 Business Award, given to students who plan to specialize in the broad retail field, and the Harry A. Benfer Memorial Scholarship, awarded to a rising senior in good academic standing who promotes goodwill and who has an appreciation for all phases of college life, those being the characteristics most evident in the life of Harry A. Benfer. 
To be eligible for Academic All-America® consideration, a student-athlete must be a varsity starter or key reserve, maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.30 on a scale of 4.00 and have reached sophomore athletic and academic standings at her current institution. The At-Large team includes the women's sports of bowling, crew, fencing, field hockey, golf, gymnastics, ice hockey, lacrosse, rifle, skiing, swimming, tennis and water polo.
Since the program's inception in 1952, CoSIDA has bestowed Academic All-America honors on more than 14,000 student-athletes in Divisions I, II, III and NAIA, covering all NCAA championship sports. 















Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




