






Talent Grant Auditions | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicTalent Grant Auditions 






Talent Grant Auditions














Talent Grant Auditions











Virtual TourFall 2020 Women Composers ProjectVirtual Music EventsOur RecordingsTalent Grant AuditionsProspective StudentsConcert ScheduleCurrent Students/Faculty & StaffMeet our Faculty & StaffMissionOur Alumni











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicTalent Grant Auditions 













Music Talent Grant Auditions

Music Talent Grants are available to any prospective first-year student regardless of intended college major/minor. 
Talent grant recipients are required to contribute to the Department of Music by participating in a minimum of four courses and/or department ensembles during their time at Muhlenberg (excluding applied lessons).  The balance between ensembles and academic courses may be tailored to the individual student's interests and strengths. 
Music Talent Grants are renewable for four years. Grants will be automatically renewed provided that:

The student is in good academic and social standing
The student upholds his/her/their commitment to departmental participation (see above).

To qualify for a Music Talent Grant, a prospective student must have a completed application on file with the Office of Admissions and must submit a virtual audition prior to the deadline.  Auditions may be heard prior to submitting an application for admission but award notification will not be sent without an application on file. Notification of awards is made by the Office of Financial Aid no later than April 15th.

 
Scheduling a Music Talent Grant Audition
In years past, the Department of Music has encouraged students to travel to campus for an in-person audition. Sadly, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, on-campus auditions will not be offered this year. All Music Talent Grant Auditions will be conducted virtually. 
Please prepare two contrasting pieces that best demonstrate your performing abilities.  Given that auditions will be virtual this cycle, students are welcome to use a recorded accompaniment. Live accompaniment is not required for the virtual audition. 
      Additional Information for Vocal Auditions

It is recommended that one of your two selections be in a foreign language, but not required.
We understand that recording technology may vary greatly from student to student. We encourage you to use whatever technology you have to make your recordings. Please do not submit materials that have undergone significant editing or modification.

We will begin reviewing virtual auditions in early September. At that time, you may click HERE to submit your audition electronically. 
Deadlines:
For students applying Early Decision I, please submit your audition by December 1st.
For students applying Early Decision II and Regular Decision, please submit your application by February 1st.
Please direct any questions about auditions to the Music Department Office Manager, Heather Rogers, heatherrogers@muhlenberg.edu or 484.664.3363.
 
Ensembles
Auditions may be required for seating/placement only and will generally take place during June Advising and the first week of classes.  Music Ensemble registration is open to all Muhlenberg College students regardless of intended college major/minor.
 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















