








Mule Sports Daily - March 5, 2011













    
		







Saturday, March 5, 2011 - page 2

			 February 28  |
			March 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30
 31 | April 1












					 

men’s lacrosse wins first on strong third




Torphy Breaks School Record; Baseball Drops Florida Opener


For the second straight year, Bobby Torphy took the phrase "last chance meet" quite literally.

The senior on the Muhlenberg track and field team broke the school record and hit the NCAA provisional qualifying time in the mile at the Columbia Last Chance Qualifer at the Armory in New York.
Last year, Torphy took advantage of his final opportunity to qualify for the NCAAs in the 800 meters. 

Torphy will find out on Sunday if his time of 4:14.57 will be good enough to earn his fifth trip to an NCAA Championship meet. Reported results through yesterday's meets showed 25 runners with better
times.

The other Mule runner to provisionally qualify for NCAAs, junior Peter Rice, also ran on the Armory, but he did not improve on his previous qualifying time. He was ninth on the
Division III performance lists.

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

The Muhlenberg baseball team found sunshine and warm weather in Vero Beach, Fla., but the result of the game was not sunny.

Undefeated Neumann scored six runs in the fourth inning en route to a 17-5 win in a three-and-a-half hour marathon.

Seniors Joseph DiCecilia and Clint Lynch each went 2-for-4 with an RBI for the Mules (2-2-1).
Click here for line score.
Click here for complete stats.





If the Muhlenberg men's lacrosse team goes on to have a successful season, it may look back on the third quarter of its third game.

Facing another tight game on the road, the Mules erupted for five goals 




Rheiner scored twice for his first career multiple-goal game.



in the third quarter to break a 3-all halftime tie and 
went on to defeat Scranton, 10-5, for their first win of the season.

Muhlenberg was within a goal or ahead by a goal in the fourth quarter of its first two games but lost both.

"It's good to get a win," said junior Alex Ardolino, who scored three goals for his third career hat trick. "We weren't performing well in the first two games. We practiced well this week, and it came together well today."

The game was tied after a first half in which Scranton used a patient offense to control the tempo and keep possession of the ball. The Royals had a 25-11 advantage in shots in the first 30 minutes, but only nine of the shots were on goal (one more than the Mules had) due to the Muhlenberg defense, which remained patient as well.

"It can get frustrating," admitted sophomore Ian de Ruiter. "That's the system they play, and you have to try to not get fed up. All our guys played well on defense today, especially on the man-down."

Muhlenberg played so well that it scored as much as it gave up in man-down situations. The Mules killed off nine of their 10 penalties and scored a man-down goal early in the 
third quarter after senior Brent Siebold juked two defenders 




Senior Zachary Armstrong strong-arms a Scranton attacker.




on a clear and found Ardolino alone in front of the goalie.

Ardolino buried the shot for his third goal of the game, giving Muhlenberg a 5-3 lead midway through the third quarter.

"After that, we were rolling," Ardolino said. "From then on we were pretty in control of the game."

The man-down goal was part of a stretch in which the Mules 
scored on three straight possessions. Junior Nick Rispoli won the ensuing faceoff, and a minute later Siebold scored off a feed from junior Corey Aferiat to make it 6-3.

Scranton scored the next goal, but sophomore Doug Rheiner answered 40 seconds later, and Siebold added his second goal of the game with just 5 seconds left in the quarter to give Muhlenberg a commanding 8-4 lead.

Facing a big deficit, Scranton was less patient in the fourth quarter, but senior Mike Horowitz made half of his 14 saves in the final period to preserve the lead.

Siebold tied his career high of four points in the game, with two assists to go along with his two goals. Aferiat had two goals and an assists.
Click here for box score.
Click here for complete stats.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




