






Martin Art Gallery | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art Gallery 






Martin Art Gallery














Martin Art Gallery











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art Gallery 















Martin Art Gallery looks forward to welcoming campus and community partners back into our galleries in person this year with a series of dynamic exhibitions.
Nothing is more important to us than the health and safety of our community, and so safe access to the Gallery and the Campus will be determined by the leadership of the College following the advice of an advisory council informed by state and national health guidance. Conditions of access may be subject to change without notice and so we encourage you to check here and with the College's main website for guidance as to masking policies and general access to our spaces.






2022 Senior Thesis Exhibition
May 2 - May 21, 2022


The Martin Art Gallery at Muhlenberg College is proud to host The 2022 Senior Thesis exhibition featuring works byAmanda Alliance, Nyjah Johnson, Jacob Lader, Dylan Merino, and Avital Zemel. This year's CUE [Thesis] course wastaught by Associate Professor Frederick Wright Jones.







The Past Five Years
James F.L. Carroll June 9 - July 30, 2022

Untitled # 2 of 64 in grid installation, acrylic on canvas, 18 in, h x 24 in w, 2016

This summer we look forward to hosting James F.L. Carroll for a solo exhibition in the Martin Art Gallery. Carroll is a well-known and prodigious artist, is also an energetic and iconic force who has been promoting the visual arts in the Lehigh Valley and beyond for decades as the founding director of the New Arts Program in Kutztown. His adventurous mark making on canvas or hand-made paper is the result of his insatiable curiosity to explore new possibilities.







Collection Works Currently on Display in the Baker Center for the Arts
 










 

 

 








Throughout the year the Martin Art Gallery rotates permanent collection works that are on display in the Center for the Arts. These large works are hung throughout the common spaces, and extend into areas outside of the Baker Theater building [aka the Fishbowl].
Currently works are on display by Marjory Edwards, Heide Fasnacht, Jen Huh, David Mann, Liz Whitney Quisgard, Robert Rauschenberg, Alberto Rey, and others.

The Martin Art Gallery is open Tuesday - Saturday 12 - 8pm, and The Martin Art Gallery's Galleria Space is open Monday - Sunday, 9:00am - 11:00pm*.  All of our exhibitions and programming are free and open to the public.  For further information, please  call us at 484 664 3467
 
Artists may submit an exhibition packet or proposal for consideration to the gallery. Packets should include contact information and web portfolio link. Our gallery mailing address is: Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, 2400 Chew St., Allentown, PA 18104. Proposals will be accepted on an ongoing/rolling basis, and prospective artists will be contacted by the gallery. Please do not submit original art work as the gallery cannot be responsible for caring for or returning unsolicited submissions. Promotional materials submitted for consideration will not be returned.   
 All art images are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pennsylvania. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved. 




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















