








Mule Sports Daily - April 14, 2011













    
		







Thursday, April 14, 2011 - page 2

			 March 31  |
			April 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30 | May 1












					 

softball continues assault on offensive record book


Ashley Brewer does not consider herself a home run hitter.

Good luck trying to tell that to Centennial Conference pitchers.

The senior broke the school record for round-trippers in a season as she hit two of the Mules’ four home runs in a sweep of Franklin & Marshall. The
10-4 and 8-3 wins kept Muhlenberg a half-game ahead of Ursinus for first place in the CC.

“I just like putting the ball in play and making solid contact,” Brewer said. “We’ve just all been hitting really well lately, and we’re all in the zone. We’re playing really well right now, so it’s very exciting. 

“We fouled off a lot of pitches, and then 




Blohm finished the day with four hits, three runs scored and seven RBI. She set career highs for RBI in a game (5) and season (21).



when we finally got a good one, we took advantage of it. We did a really good job of going deep into our at-bats and waiting for the right pitch.”

In the opener, Muhlenberg scored single runs in the first and second innings before senior Alyssa Epstein and junior Brittany Blohm each smacked two-RBI singles to give the Mules a 7-2 lead after three.

Brewer added a two-run homer in the fourth, and Epstein picked up her third RBI of the game when she singled home Brewer in the fifth as the Mules cruised to a 10-4 win.

“Having to practice inside because of the rain has been really frustrating,” Brewer said. “So we were really anxious and excited to come out to play today, which is part of the reason why we came out so hot.

“We’ve really wanted to play for awhile, so when we finally got the chance we made the most of it.”

Things did not go quite as easily in the nightcap. The Mules trailed, 3-1, after four innings, when the offense erupted once again.

Freshman Colleen O’Donnell led off the fifth with her second home run of the season. Two batters later, Brewer smacked her second round-tripper of the day to tie the game.

After a scoreless sixth, the Mules went to bat in the seventh with the game tied.

Sophomore Devon Barber drew a leadoff walk, then freshman Erica Wenzel reached on a bunt single. After Brewer moved both runners over with a groundout to second, the Diplomats intentionally walked Kelly Kline.

Epstein made that decision hurt with an RBI single to right to put Muhlenberg in front.

Two batters later, Blohm gave the Mules plenty of insurance when she lofted a pitch over the left field wall for a grand slam.

In the bottom of the seventh, sophomore Angie Sisco retired the Diplomats in order to seal the 8-3 win.
 
The three home runs in Game 2 tied the school single-game record, and also set a new single-season mark. The Mules have hit 14 home runs this season, two more than the 2009 squad.

Muhlenberg has now broken the single-season records for home runs, doubles and extra-base hits.

Brewer, who also picked up the win in Game 1, became the school’s single-season home run leader with five on the year, and is the first player in Mule history to compile double-digit round-trippers in a career.

Epstein collected three hits and drove in four runs, while senior Jess Kasza contributed three hits.

“We’ve been really working on focusing one pitch and one at-bat at a time and not looking at the big picture,” Brewer said. “We’re really starting to play well and go into every game not just hoping, but expecting to win.

“We are peaking at the right time, and I think we are just going to keep on improving and going uphill from here.”
Click here for line scores.
Click for complete stats: Game 1 | Game 2













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 





