






Christ with the Sick... | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionChrist with the Sick... 






Christ with the Sick...














Christ with the Sick...











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionChrist with the Sick... 

















 Rembrandt van Rijn     (Dutch, 1606-1669) Christ with the Sick... ,    (Hundred Guilder Print, circa 1649) Etching, drypoint,     on Japan paper
 In the history of art, the name Rembrandt van Rijn often serves to define the term, "old master." His oil paintings including the famous Night Watch 1642 among the most important paintings in the history of Dutch Baroque art. His unprecedented skills as a painter, art market success, and fascinating biography offer art enthusiasts the opportunity to study a quintessential master.
In addition to Rembrandt's artistic achievements in painting, his development as a printmaker firmly places him within the realm of history's greatest artists. He addressed many different subjects in his etchings and drypoints, including religious ones. This interest is evident in possibly the most successful print of his career, Christ with the Sick around Him, Receiving the Children or the Hundred Guilder Print. As a printmaker, Rembrandt's unchallenged abilities are well accepted and were widely known during his lifetime. For example, Christ with the Sick... gained the subtitle the Hundred Guilder Print in 1649 because the etching was purchased by a Roman print dealer for that price, the equivalent of 150 gold pieces.
Unlike most etchers of the seventeenth century, Rembrandt often printed his own plates instead of handing over the task to a professional printer. While printing the plate, Rembrandt would make subtle changes in the composition which transformed the print from one state to another. His choice of paper also transformed each print. The Rembrandt etching from the Florence Foerderer Tonner Memorial Collection is printed on light grey Japan paper as indicated by its distinct watermark. The Muhlenberg example was pulled from the second state of the print.

All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















