








Mule Sports Daily - April 26, 2011













    
		







Tuesday, April 26, 2011 - page 4

						 March 31  |
			April 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30 | May 1












					 

Men’s tennis closes season with two-match winning streak



Men's Golf Ties for Second in Final Tuneup; Baseball Falls on Road


The Muhlenberg men's golf team had another solid showing in its final tournament before this weekend's Centennial Conference Championships.

The Mules finished tied for second, one stroke out of first place, at the Messiah Falcon Classic with a 35-over-par score of 323. It's the second time Muhlenberg has finished one stroke off the lead this spring.

On a day when strong winds and a wet course made conditions difficult, three Mules broke 80 to finish in the top 10.

Seniors Eric Boskey and Zachary Oyer and junior Zack Meyers were part of a four-way tie for sixth place after each carded a 79. It was the second time this spring that the Mules had at least three players shoot in the 70s in the same round.

Muhlenberg was the top Centennial Conference finisher, coming in seven strokes ahead of Dickinson and more than 15 shots better than both Gettysburg and Ursinus.
Click here for Muhlenberg box score.
Click here for complete results.

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

Despite striking for a pair of runs in the top of the first, the Muhlenberg baseball team dropped its Centennial Conference finale at Dickinson, 6-3.

Sophomore Joseph Vila got the Mules (10-26-1, 7-11) started with a two-RBI triple in the opening inning. It was his CC-leading sixth triple of the season, but the Red Devils responded with four runs in the bottom half.

Muhlenberg pulled to within one when freshman Max Litvak belted a two-out triple in the fourth and scored on senior Bobby Spindler's single to right, but it would not be enough as Dickinson (21-15, 7-11) added a pair of runs in the seventh to sweep the season series.

Senior Jeff Puklin added a double, while classmate Joseph DiCecilia and freshman John Scuderi each picked up a pair of hits for the Mules.
Click here for line score.
Click here for complete stats.



As he grabbed a quick drink of water between his singles and doubles matches, senior Robbie Goldwein of the Muhlenberg men's tennis team gave himself a brief pep talk. "You've got one more match to go out the right way," he said.

That message not only rang true for Goldwein, but the entire Mule team as well. While the senior regrouped to win his singles match in straight sets, Muhlenberg swept all six singles matches to cruise to an 8-1 win over Arcadia in the season finale.




"I just feel relieved more than anything," Goldwein said. "Obviously I want to win every match, but this one felt even bigger because I didn't want to end my career with a loss. 

"I probably would have flipped out if I hadn't won, but luckily I was able to play well when I needed to and leave a good taste in my mouth."

He wasn't the only Mule that left the Kern Field Courts satisfied, and not just because of the celebratory tennis ball cupcakes either.

Senior Wayne Mitchel and junior Jordan Rutt each won both their singles and doubles matches. Mitchel's singles win was his first of the season and helped him pass the 40-win plateau for his career, while Rutt only dropped two games combined between singles and doubles.

Freshman Ben Berkowitz did not drop at game as he picked up his team-high eighth win of the season at No. 4 singles, while junior Ben Cohen and freshman  Jason Teitelbaum dropped a combined three games in their straight-set wins.

Both Goldwein (right) and Mitchel picked up the 20th singles victories of their careers to help give Muhlenberg a two-match winning streak. And the sound of those words, "winning streak," was music to Goldwein's ears.

"That has a pretty good ring to it," he said with a smile. "Unfortunately this is the last match for some of us, but hopefully it will give the younger guys something to build upon next year.

"The season obviously didn't go quite the way we had hoped, but I'm really glad that Wayne and I were able to end our careers on a winning note."
Click here for box score.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 






