






Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionMuhlenberg College 






Muhlenberg College














Muhlenberg College











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionMuhlenberg College 

















 Philip Evergood     (American, 1901-1973) Muhlenberg College, 1942 Watercolor
 Through studying this watercolor, the viewer discovers that Muhlenberg’s history runs parallel to the history of art. The first chair of the art department at Muhlenberg was the kinetic sculptor, George Rickey. Rickey, who gained fame for his dynamic metal constructions, gave the college a suite of drawings and small format paintings that demonstrate his early career style and remain in the permanent art collection. Today, these pieces are used for study by studio art faculty and students.
Rickey was teaching art at Muhlenberg in the early part of the 1940s when he was drafted into the armed services during World War II. Upon receiving the news that he would need a temporary replacement to teach at the college, Rickey called his friend, the painter Philip Evergood to come to Allentown. Evergood, exempt from military service because of his poor health, happily accepted Rickey’s offer to teach at Muhlenberg. In the winter of 1942-43, Evergood taught studio art courses at Muhlenberg and this simple composition featuring the campus, its buildings, natural surroundings, and students at play is indicative of Evergood’s feelings about the small liberal arts college. Evergood gave this lovely picture to the college when Rickey returned from the war and regained his teaching post.
Like Rickey, Evergood went on to gain fame in the art world and enjoyed market success. Evergood’s works are in the collections of the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Allentown Art Museum.

All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















