






Victor's Lament | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionVictor's Lament 






Victor's Lament














Victor's Lament











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionVictor's Lament 

















 Mark di Suvero (American, b. 1933)     Victor’s Lament, 1969-70 Steel I beams
 With a broad knowledge of art history and a profound sense of aesthetics, Mark di Suvero produces sculptures that incorporate the lyrical beauty of motion and the heroic nature of Abstract Expressionism. Di Suvero’s abstractions capture the renewed spirit of American art in the post-war era.
Born in 1933, Mark di Suvero matured as an artist during arguably the most progressive period for American sculpture. In the late 1950s, after studying philosophy at the University of California at Berkeley, di Suvero relocated to New York City and created pieces which bridged the gap between the metal drawings of Abstract Expressionism and the straightforward cubes of Minimalism. Di Suvero’s pieces, while closely associated with architectural construction, engineering, and industry, relate to the emphatic gestural paintings of Jackson Pollock and Franz Kline. Di Suvero’s constructions also reference the playful movement of Alexander Calder’s mobiles.
In addition to his familiarity with works by other artists, di Suvero’s most significant artistic contributions derived from the manner in which he broke from tradition. He moved beyond traditional wood carving and embraced the materials, methods and progressive spirit of the modern age. Innovative technology, factory inspired tools, and underutilized materials offered new options for sculptural expression after World War II and as a result, di Suvero pioneered the art of Assemblage.
As an assemblage artist, di Suvero’s direct employment of non-traditional materials such as rough planks, steel rods, chains, girders, tires, ladders, and railroad ties became commonplace in the art world. Such unexplored sculptural materials and found objects became a mainstay for di Suvero’s post-war assemblages including Barrell 1959 (destroyed), Hankchampion 1960 (Whitney Museum of American Art), and Ladder piece 1961-62 (Museum of Modern Art). Di Suvero uses cranes, pulleys, lifts and other heavy equipment to assemble his large public monuments and works directly to design the pieces without the aid of extensive plans or preliminary drawings.
These elements make di Suvero’s large-scale structures simultaneously ominous and inviting. Di Suvero’s aesthetic interest prove evident in the steel I-beam structure, Victor’s Lament (1969-70) has become a focal point of the Muhlenberg College campus. The complex pulley system and steel I-beams of Victor’s Lament have provided the Lehigh Valley with a work that is contextually appropriate for the home of America’s steel industry. Today, Victor’s Lament takes its rightful place as an undisputed Lehigh Valley landmark as well as a major icon of twentieth-century American sculpture.

All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















