






Mosa Mohave Girl | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionMosa Mohave Girl 






Mosa Mohave Girl














Mosa Mohave Girl











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionMosa Mohave Girl 

















 Edward S. Curtis     (American, 1868-1952) Mosa Mohave Girl (from The North American Indian),, 1906 Photogravure
  In 1896, American photographer Edward S. Curtis embarked upon one of the most ambitious projects in the history of photography, producing a comprehensive record of all of the available information on the Indians of North America. He traveled throughout North America documenting the various tribes on film in a manner consistent with the contemporary American photographic movement called Pictorialism.
After a decade of work, Curtis’ extensive project remained unfinished. Totally consumed by his photography, Curtis had depleted his own financial resources and, in 1906, sought a patron. He sparked the interest of both Teddy Roosevelt and J. P. Morgan. With Morgan’s backing, Curtis quickly resumed his field work, produced over 40,000 negatives and published his work, The North American Indian in 1930.
The series included 20 volumes of text on the lifestyle and traditions of over 80 tribes, 1,500 small format photogravures, 20 accompanying portfolios containing 723 large format photogravures, maps and diagrams. These visual documents provide insight into the rich cultural diversity of North America and also demonstrate the idealized nature of pictorialist photography popular around the turn of the century.
As a pictorialist, Curtis produced distinctly decorative photographic prints that incorporated subtle tonalities and simplicity of composition as evident in the Mosa Mohave Girl from 1906. He selected picturesque individuals mainly women and the elderly in striking poses and ornate costumes, exhibiting the individualism and pride of all native people.
Curtis published 272 of an intended 500 sets of The North American Indian between 1907 and 1930. Muhlenberg owns a complete set, number 135 of 272. Today, only 12 of the original 272 sets remain intact and Muhlenberg is fortunate to own and have preserved one. The set was a gift from General Harry C. Trexler in 1930.

All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















