






Book Illustrations | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionBook Illustrations 






Book Illustrations














Book Illustrations











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryThe Permanent CollectionBook Illustrations 

















 William Blake (English, 1757-1827) Book Illustrations from Edward Young’s Night Thoughts, 1797 Hand colored watercolors and India ink
 
  William Blake was a master of both Romantic poetry and Romantic painting. Blake wrote and then illustrated many of his own mystical poems. Possibly the most famous example of Blake’s integration of poetry and printmaking was his 1794 work, Songs of Innocence and of Experience. For this work, Blake produced etchings to accompany his text. In addition to his own work, Blake hand colored illustrations of classic literary classics written by Dante and Milton. With the belief that artistic genius was a God given gift, Blake indeed was touched by a higher power as evidenced by his poetry, paintings or prints.
Blake was commissioned to illustrate Edward Young’s work, Night Thoughts for publication. Blake produced nearly 50 illustrations for the first of four volumes of Night Thoughts (1797). As a result of poor sales of the book, the second, third, and fourth volumes of the text were never published making the first edition of volume one, now at Muhlenberg, all the more rare. Muhlenberg houses one of the 25 existing color copies of the text. According to Blake scholars and rare book dealers, the copy at Muhlenberg is an original work by Blake’s hand. Blake colored this copy himself unlike some of the other copies that were hand colored by other artists under Blake’s direction. Blake’s strong colors, intense studies of nature, and striking artistic forms offer this work as an important example of Romanticism.

All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















