








Mule Sports Daily - March 7, 2011













    
		







Monday, March 7, 2011 - page 2

			 February 28  |
			March 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30
 31 | April 1












					 

softball continues offensive assault


Forgive Ashley Brewer if she’s having trouble remembering just how many runs the Muhlenberg softball team has been scoring.

The Mules are crossing the plate at such a high volume that the senior captain did not realize she had set a school record with seven RBI in the 15-4 mercy rule win over Northwestern (Minn.). 

But considering Muhlenberg also started the day with a mercy rule win, 8-0 over Medaille, it’s easy to understanding why the big innings seem to run together.




Brewer has recorded 10 RBI in Muhlenberg's first four games, three fewer than she had all last season. She needs just seven more to tie her single-season high.




“Wow, that’s pretty cool,” Brewer said of the RBI record. “Honestly our team has been playing so well lately. We’ve scored so many runs that it’s hard to keep track. I didn’t even realize I had that many, but to have my name next to the record is pretty special. 

“But it also has as much to do with the girls in front of me getting on and scoring. We are playing so well right now; this is just awesome.”  

While Brewer provided most of the pop, Erica Wenzel added plenty of sizzle.

The freshman went 7-for-7 from the plate to account for almost one-third of Muhlenberg’s 24 hits on the day. She also scored a team-high six runs in the two games. 

Wenzel led off the Medaille game with a triple. Then Muhlenberg’s next batter, Devon Barber, drove her in and later scored on a Maverick error. Kelly Kline capped the inning when she scored on a wild pitch to make it 3-0 after one.

After picking up a single run in the second, the Mules put up another crooked number in the fifth when Wenzel led off with a double and later scored on an error. Brewer then brought home Barber and eventually scored on an error. Finally, Kline scored on a sacrifice fly from senior Jess Kasza to invoke the mercy rule.

Sophomore pitcher Angie Sisco allowed just three hits while striking out four batters without surrendering a walk to pick up the second shutout of her career.

In the second game against Northwestern, Brewer wasted little time as she belted a three-run home run over the left-field fence to give the Mules a 3-0 lead after one.

That blast moved Brewer into first place on the school’s all-time home run list with seven. 

However, Northwestern found some offense of its own and pulled to within two, 6-4, after three innings. 

That’s when Muhlenberg (4-0) blew the game open with a nine-run fourth. Brewer struck again with a two-RBI single to start the rally. Then a pair of RBI doubles, two errors and a sacrifice fly made it 13-4 Mules, before Brewer capped the inning with a two-RBI double.

As if her offensive output wasn’t enough, Brewer, who was pitching the second game, struck out eight Eagles to grab her second win of the young season.

Barber scored five times on the day, while Kline collected four hits, scored four runs and added two RBI.

Muhlenberg has scored 47 runs this season, the most in the first four games of a season since 1997. It took the Mules 15 games to score 47 runs last season.

The difference, according to Brewer, is aggressiveness. The top of the Mule lineup is getting on base and putting pressure on the opposition. And when that happens, big innings can come in a hurry. 

And it’s those type of innings, she said, that can help Muhlenberg get back to top of the conference race.

“We’ve all been working really hard during the winter and I think we’re really excited to be outside and playing. This is a great confidence builder after our disappointing year least year. We’re not waiting around; we’re going out trying to score early and often.

“We are playing so well right now that we know we can play with anyone when we get back home. This is a great start to the season, and we feel like we are ready to have a big year.” 
Click here for line scores.
Click for complete stats: Medaille | Northwestern (Minn.)













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 






