








Mule Sports Daily - March 2, 2011













    
		







Wednesday, March 2, 2011

			 February 28  |
			March 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30
 31 | April 1












					 

 Baseball

women’s lacrosse uses balanced attack to slay Valiants


The Muhlenberg women’s lacrosse team is looking to share the wealth this spring. And if Wednesday’s season opener against Manhattanville was any indication, this season should be rather prosperous for the Mules.

Six players scored at least two goals apiece as Muhlenberg handled the Valiants, 17-10, on a blustery day in Allentown. 




Van Hise scored two of her three points before halftime as the Mules finished one tally short of the team record for goals in a half.



“Everyone is a threat on the attack,” junior Angela Napoletano said of the scoring balance. “Because of that, we can run different plays that have more than one option and give everybody a chance to score, which really worked today.” 

With the score tied, 2-2, after five minutes, the Mules (1-0) scored four goals in just over three minutes, including a pair from senior Danielle Rosen, to pull ahead. 

Manhattanville (0-1) used a free position shot to cut the lead to 6-3 before Muhlenberg responded again by scoring eight of the next nine goals to take control.

With Rosen working from behind the cage, the Mules flashed player after player in front of the net. Rosen connected with sophomore Alexandra Gabriele for back-to-back goals a little more than a minute apart to make it 8-3.

Rosen then added two goals of her own, sandwiched around Napoletano’s second tally of the game, to push the lead to eight.

Finally, three straight goals from sophomore Molly Davin gave Muhlenberg a commanding 14-4 advantage at the break.

From there the Mules were able to cruise through the second half to earn the victory.

Rosen led the offense with four goals and four assists, falling one point shy of her career high. She needs just two more goals to become only the 10th player in Muhlenberg history to record 100 goals in her career. 

Napoletano finished with three goals, while senior Christine Van Hise and junior Kelsey Elmer also added two tallies apiece. 

“We feel like everybody on the attack can go to the goal and get it done,” Napoletano said. “I think today showed the potential that we have and just how dangerous we can be.”

Freshman midfielder Kaitlyn McCaffrey had an impressive debut, finishing with a game-high six ground balls to go along with seven draw controls and four caused turnovers. Senior defender Lauren DeCarle also controlled seven draws, while sophomore attacker Alex Bellini added a goal and three ground balls.

But what was even more encouraging than the final score, according to Napoletano, was how well the Mules played together. After what she called a “rough” scrimmage last week, the team worked on communicating better and playing as a unit. 

And after seeing her team’s performance, Napoletano said she could not think of a better reward than a trip to Hilton Head, S.C.

“Today we came out and fixed a lot of mistakes. We just played as a team; it was a total team effort,” she said. “Everybody worked hard out there. The whole team put it all together and that really helped us out today. We fixed what we had to do and looked a lot better today.

“We’re all ready to get out of the cold and head south for Spring Break. This was a good win and we want to keep it going down there.”
Click here for box score.
Click here for complete stats.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




