






Girl Band | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsGirl Band 






Girl Band














Girl Band











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsGirl Band 

















Past Exhibitions
 
Girl Band   January 15 – February 22 Reception: January 22, 4:30 – 6:00pm Artists: Pat Badt, Marthe Keller, Julie Shapiro, Kim Uchiyama Guest curator: Stephanie Buhmann
The Martin Art Gallery opens the spring semester with Girl Band, a group show by mature, contemporary painters whose work is simply described by guest curator Stephanie Buhmann— “Abstraction rooted in color and line.”
Buhman explains that each of the artists in Girl Band stands on the shoulders of non-objective painter Agnes Martin who from 1960 onward developed a signature style rooted in lines and grids. Many contemporary abstract artists continue to explore the simple structures and rhythms that vertical or horizontal lines create; they believe in the expressive range that can be achieved. Although Badt, Keller, Shapiro and Uchiyama vary significantly in their stylistic approaches, they have much in common. Above all, they share a concentrated devotion to a repeating line as a predominant compositional feature and they all take color personally.
Badt has worked in abstraction since the early 1970s and her paintings grow from specific personal experiences.  “I work with a woven matrix of string that demands that I am always on the surface of the painting,” she states.  Her gesture is restricted and her lines of color accumulate into layers.  Keller avoids nature-based color and prefers acrylic paint that offers colors made for automotive and military purposes.  She has worked in abstraction since the 1960s and draws inspiration from chance and repetition. Conversely, Shapiro’s palette is sparked by natural objects and her work is largely inspired by the landscape that surrounds her.  She has worked for decades in painting, drawing, and printmaking and now finds collage has begun to play a role for her in both concept and method.  Uchiyama’s color concepts are also derived from nature, particularly referencing the psychology and mystery of light.  Her paintings are horizontal banners of rich color.  During her 25-year career she has settled on a format that is derived from the layering of earth and sky.
Girl Band opens January 15 at noon.  A reception to meet the artists and guest curator will be Wednesday, January 22, 4:30 – 6 PM in the Martin Art Gallery Baker Center for the Arts.  The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. Gallery hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m., additional hours by appointment.
‌
Julie Shapiro, Crop up September, 2013. Oil on canvas, 42” x 40”
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















