






Redefining the Multiple | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsRedefining the Multiple 






Redefining the Multiple














Redefining the Multiple











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsRedefining the Multiple 

















Past Exhibitions
 
Redefining the Multiple: 13 Japanese Artists June 13 – August 2, 2013

Koichi Kiyono, Cultivation II, 2011(detail). Etching on cotton-wool and felt with hand sewing. Dimensions variable.
Recent work in the medium of contemporary print-making, or multiples, by thirteen Japanese artists will be on view in Redefining the Multiple in the Martin Art Gallery, June 13 – August 2.
Historically, Japanese print-making embodies a revered and impressive tradition that evokes mental images of iconic prints by 19th-century masters, Katsushika Hokusai and Utagawa (Ando) Hiroshige. Their use of diagonal composition, and exacting craftsmanship inspired and profoundly influenced European painters and print-makers of that era and became forever embedded in Western art production, study, and appreciation.
Ironically, Western art in the past 40 – 50 years has significantly informed the work of contemporary Japanese printmakers. Under that influence and others, this artistic baker’s dozen has moved well beyond the time-honored imagery of Hokusai and Hiroshige in unexpected, innovative and compelling ways; skillfully employing non-traditional materials, including a cicada shell, digitally altered photography, and fabric. Emerging printing techniques allow them additional ways to create powerful fusions of two- and three- dimensions—prints that are sculptural. However, even while exploring the very edges of innovation, the artists remain firmly grounded in the Japanese tradition of thoughtful and impeccable craftsmanship and presentation.
The Martin Art Gallery gratefully acknowledges the efforts of the curators of Redefining the Multiple--Professor Hideki Kimura, Kyoto City University of the Arts and Sam Yates, Director of the Ewing Gallery of Art & Architecture, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, to bring together this thoroughly redefined approach to printmaking.
The exhibition is free and open to the public. Gallery hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m.; closed July 4. More information: 484-664-3467.
 
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















