






Patterned Lineage | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsPatterned Lineage 






Patterned Lineage














Patterned Lineage











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsPatterned Lineage 

















Past Exhibitions
 
Lisa A. Turngren Patterned Lineage: Facing, Backing & the Space Between March 13 – April 13, 2013

Lisa A. Turngren, Front and Center, 2012. Mixed media, 53” x 46”.
Patterned Lineage: Facing, Backing and the Space Between includes new work by Turngren that examine personal and societal inheritances from the past, how these inheritances inform the present and their relationship to future narratives while taking into account the patterns and marks that imprint the spaces between.
Turngren’s mixed-media Patterned Lineage series is process oriented and investigates personal and social gender constructs. Her work develops via stream-of-consciousness and chance—experimentations that then lead to alternate avenues of investigation. Her process is coupled with periods of aesthetic examination to analyze the materials, techniques, and concepts through both personal and collective lenses. Along this continuum exists an exploration of the inheritances and legacies across generations of women through the passing down of objects and unconscious processes, investigating what these objects and processes symbolize personally and culturally, and examining the social norms or constructs, ideals and traditions bequeathed both overtly and implicitly.
Begun in 2008, the Patterned Lineage series progresses into 2013 as Turngren continues to examine how the past informs us. She exposes that we need not adhere to ideals and gender stereotypes that may not apply to the future vision and perception of who “we” are, or wish to be, as individuals in society. The “we” connotes a shared experience perhaps outside of the perceived norm and outside of fundamental awareness. The artist, as self—looking inward and projecting outward— encourages viewers to investigate their collective histories and personal narratives and acknowledge how these intersect to form a relationship with, or disconnect from, societal and individual patterns that are created and repeated.
Lisa A. Turngren, a New York City–based mixed-media artist, holds a BFA in Painting from Tyler School of Art/Temple University. Her post-graduate studies include an MSW from Fordham University. Turngren went on to practice psychotherapy as an LCSW specializing in children and adolescents, while continuing studies in child and adolescent psychoanalysis and art therapy, all of which inform her current work. Turngren has now come full circle, realizing how important art making is, and reemerges mid-life as a professional artist who embraces the space between.
A reception to meet the artist will be held Wednesday, March 13, 4:30 – 6:00 p.m. in the Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. Gallery hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m., additional hours by appointment. Closed for major holidays.
 
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















