






Religion and Printmaking | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsReligion and Printmaking 






Religion and Printmaking














Religion and Printmaking











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsReligion and Printmaking 

















Past Exhibitions
A Reformation of Style: Religion & Printmaking, 1500 - 1650 November 20 – December 13, 2013 Student curator: Caitlin DiMartino ‘14
As the final exhibition of the fall 2013 semester, the Martin Art Gallery is pleased to feature A Reformation of Style: Religion & Printmaking, 1500 – 1650.

Albrecht Dürer Assumption & Coronation of the Virgin, 1510 Woodcut
Caitlin DiMartino, Class of 2014, recently mined the depths of the College’s Florence Foerderer Tonner Collection to select 23 prints and one book made by artists whose work spans the pre-and post-Reformation period in Europe.
The crux of her research was the shifting religious climate that began in 1517, the year Martin Luther nailed his Ninety-Five Theses to the All Saints Church in Wittenberg, Germany. Luther’s call for Church reform sparked more than 100 years of religious, social, and political unrest known today as the Protestant Reformation and the Catholic Counter-Reformation.
Her selections include work by universally recognized artists of the era, Albrecht Dürer and Rembrandt van Rijn. Other choices— Lucas Cranach, the Elder, Hans Sebald Beham and Urs Graf are not as well-known today. Whatever their current status, they all were master printmakers of their age. Using a variety of techniques — woodcut, hand-colored wood engraving, and etching — they created intimate and accessible religious imagery of remarkable beauty and detail.
“These artists were not immune to the affects of religious change on their respective environments”, points out Caitlin. “Their experimentation in style and ideas pushed boundaries and expressed either their personal devotion to, or departure from, religious ideology. As well, the growing popularity of printmaking and its accessibility to the general population paralleled the progression of the religious reforms and enabled the population to understand and respond to this period of unprecedented change.”
Caitlin DiMartino is pursuing a double major in art history and religion studies and will graduate from Muhlenberg College in May 2014. Dr. Margo Hobbs, associate professor of art history, was her academic advisor for this project. A reception to meet Caitlin and celebrate the opening of the exhibition will be held Wednesday, November 20, 4:30 – 6:00 PM in the Gallery. Caitlin will give a gallery talk Thursday, Nov. 21, 12:45 – 1:30. The exhibition, reception and talk are free and open to the public.
Gallery hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m., additional hours by appointment.
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















