






75th Anniversary American Abstract Artists Print  | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast Exhibitions75th Anniversary American Abstract Artists Print  






75th Anniversary American Abstract Artists Print 














75th Anniversary American Abstract Artists Print 











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast Exhibitions75th Anniversary American Abstract Artists Print  





















Past Exhibitions
‌

American Abstract Artists 75th Anniversary Print Portfolio August 27 – September 27, 2014 Artists' Reception: September 3, 4:30 - 6:00pm
The Martin Art Gallery, in collaboration with the Ewing Gallery, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, presents American Abstract Artists 75th Anniversary Portfolio as the first exhibition of the 2014-2015 academic year.
Featured are 48 archival inkjet prints in the 75th Anniversary Portfolio, each 9 ¾" x 12 ¾" and printed on Epson Hot Press Natural and Epson Cold Press Natural papers. To add history and context to AAA's latest body of work, selections from the 50th and 60thAnniversary Portfolios, which are part of the permanent collection of Muhlenberg College, will be included. These selections underscore the significant changes in printmaking that have evolved during the past 25 years.
Daniel G. Hill, President of AAA remarked about current printmaking technology, "The digital process enabled a wide variety of approaches that included abstract and documentary photography, scanning of flat-work made expressly for the project, digital compositing and image manipulation, as well as the use of vector-based software and hand-coded algorithms. The previous commemorative print portfolios (1937, 1987 and 1997) were created using more traditional forms of printmaking such as lithography and other plate-based methods." American Abstract Artists 75th Anniversary Portfolio opens August 27. A reception to meet several of the artists will be held Wednesday, Sept. 3, 4:30 - 6 PM in the Martin Art Gallery, Baker Center for the Arts. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. Gallery hours: Tuesdays - Saturdays, noon - 8:00 PM, additional hours by appointment.
 Stephen Westfall, Rose Mirror, 2012 Digital print, 9 ¾" x 12 ¾".






Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















