






Asylum | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAsylum 






Asylum














Asylum











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAsylum 

















Past Exhibitions





Asylum: Inside the Closed World of State Mental Hospitals Photographs by Christopher Payne
January 19 – February 26, 2011
Artist’s Reception: January 26, 4:30 - 6 p.m.
Artist’s talk: February 16, 7 p.m. Recital Hall
New York architect and photographer Christopher Payne has, over a period of nearly six years, richly documented the once grand and imposing public architecture of state mental hospitals throughout the United States, visiting a total of 70 institutions in 30 states.
These institutions with their lavish landscapes and scenic vistas were the nation’s hallmark of mental health care from the mid-19th century through the early twentieth. In recent decades, the population has declined dramatically due to a shift towards community-based care and improved drug therapies.
Left in the wake are the massive structures, that though abandoned and decaying, provide a compelling narrative about the patients, their caretakers, and the environment in which they both existed.
Payne married his knowledge and love of architecture with his photographic skills to capture scenes of palatial marble staircases covered with debris, long corridors with ribbons of peeling paint, colorful rows of unclaimed tooth brushes, plants that long ago escaped the confines of well-manicured lawns, once-state-of-the-art medical equipment and items that were vital to the daily care or end-of-life-needs of the vast populations of institutionalized patients.
A companion book to the exhibition, Asylum: Inside the Closed World of State Mental Hospitals, Photographs by Christopher Payne with an Essay by Oliver Sacks was published by MIT Press in 2009.
Chris Payne (b. 1968), trained as an architect and is a graduate of Columbia University and the University of Pennsylvania. His interest in historic buildings and industrial architecture began shortly after college when he documented cast-iron bridges, grain elevators, and power plants for the Historic American Engineering Record of the National Park Service. Later, he produced measured drawings for New York University’s excavations at Aphrodisiac, a Greco-Roman city in Turkey.
His first book, New York’s Forgotten Substations: The Power Behind the Subway (Princeton Architectural Press, 2002), offered rare, dramatic views of the behemoth machines that are hidden behind modest facades in New York City.
Payne has been awarded grants by he Graham Foundation, the New York State Council on the Arts, and the New York Foundation for the Arts. He continues to specialize in the documentation of America’s vanishing architectural and industrial landscape.
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















