






Andy in the Valley | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAndy in the Valley 






Andy in the Valley














Andy in the Valley











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAndy in the Valley 

















Past Exhibitions

Andy in the Valley: Warhol Polaroids and Black-and-White Photographs from Three Collections

September 21 - December 11, 2011 Main Gallery, Zoellner Arts Center, Lehigh University
Presented by Muhlenberg College, Lafayette College and Lehigh University
November 17, 4:30 p.m. Lecture: “Archival Document or Art?” Dr. Reva Wolf, Professor of Art History, SUNY at New Paltz Reception to follow.
All programs are free and open to the public.
Howdy Doody, Dorothy Hammill, John Denver, Sylvester Stallone. From the infamous to the anonymous, to the merely famous, Andy Warhol captured them all from three feet away with the fixed focal range of the Polaroid Big Shot camera, introduced in 1972. While some of Warhol’s Polaroids were later used as studies for silk-screen portraits, many are now on public view for the first time.
Andy in the Valley: Warhol Polaroids and Black-and-White Photographs from Three Collections, is a collaborative exhibition drawing together recently acquired pieces from the collections of Muhlenberg College, Lafayette College and Lehigh University. Over 180 original photographs of people, places, and miscellaneous objects taken by Warhol between 1973 and 1986 will be on view in the Lehigh University Main Gallery at the Zoellner Arts Center.
All of the works on view were donated to the three participating institutions as part of the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program, a division of the Andy Warhol Foundation, NY. Initiated in 2007 on the twentieth anniversary Warhol’s death, the Legacy Program donated about 28,000 photographs worth more than $28 million to 185 educational institutions nationwide.
The presentation of this exhibition is part of Lehigh Valley Photography Month, beginning with ArtsQuest’s Invision: PhotoFestival, November 3-6, 2011, when over 20 local galleries and arts organizations will partner to showcase a vibrant selection of contemporary and traditional photography throughout the Lehigh Valley.
A lecture on the Warhol Photographs: “Archival Document or Art?” is presented at the Main Gallery at the Zoellner Arts Center on November 17 at 4:30 by Dr. Reva Wolf, Professor of Art History, State University of New York at New Paltz. Dr. Wolf is an award-winning author, editor, and Warhol historian who has written extensively on the artist’s photography. Her lecture will explore what photography meant to Warhol, how it fits into his artistic development, and its lasting impact on the history of contemporary art and culture.
 
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















