








Mule Sports Daily - October 9, 2010













    
		







Saturday, October 9, 2010 - page 2

			 September 30  |
			October 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 28
 29
 30
 31 | November 1












					 

soccer sweeps Washington




Women’s Soccer Gets Offensive Again



With the sounds of bands 




Sophomore Natalie Wizel assisted on the third goal, sending a nice cross along the end line for Miller to head in.




playing at nearby “West Fest” providing the background music, the Muhlenberg’s women’s soccer team went on another goal-fest.

The Mules scored four first-half goals and made them stand up in defeating Washington, 4-0.

Following Wednesday’s 5-3 win against Moravian, it gave Muhlenberg nine goals in two games after it scored 11 in the first nine games. The Mules hadn’t scored at least four goals in consecutive games in two years.

The team’s three scoring leaders combined for all the goals, with junior  Nicolette Miller netting the last two and freshman CJ Graetzer and junior Meghan O’Grady scoring one apiece. 

Graetzer began the scoring with a short-range shot just 2:30 into the contest after a Washington back knocked the ball away from another Mule. She later played a free kick off to senior
Valerie Patriarca, whose service into the box was headed in by O'Grady.

Miller’s two goals made her the 10th player in team history to score 50 career points; O’Grady is just one away from reaching that milestone.

The second half was mostly uneventful, with the exception of junior Michele Toher’s save of a point-blank shot in the 65th minute. Toher made five other saves for her 11th career shutout.

The Mules have never lost to the Shorewomen (4-5-1, 0-4) in 13 all-time meetings, outscoring them 44-3.

Muhlenberg (4-5-2) now finds itself in the same position it was last year: 3-1 in the Centennial Conference, with only a loss to Dickinson, heading into games against Swarthmore and Johns Hopkins. Last year, both teams were nationally ranked, and the Mules beat them both en route to the CC regular-season title.
Click here for box score.
Click here for complete stats.






As Tim Leischner's corner kick sailed into the Washington College box, it bounced off the hands of the Shoremen goalkeeper and deflected off the crossbar.

Luckily for the Mules, Tom Reilly was crashing the box and met the ball in midair. All it took was a flick of Reilly's head, and the senior forward had his second goal of the season.

That was one of several opportunistic goals for the Muhlenberg men's soccer team Saturday afternoon, as it cruised to a 5-0 win over Washington (3-8-1, 0-4-1) at Varsity Field.

"Every time the ball is around the net, you're always told to follow it," Reilly said. "Most of the time the goalie holds on, but every now and then there's that chance that he drops it and it paid off today. I was just crashing and it fell literally right on my head and all I had to do was tap it in."




Joseph's assist was the first of his career.




Reilly's goal was not the only heady play for the Mules on Saturday.

In the 13th minute, Jacob Joseph lined up for a corner kick with the game scoreless.

Joseph's kick sailed to Cody Antonini, who was just inside the 18-yard line on the far post. Antonini rose above the Shoremen defense and headed a perfect pass to Josh Luginbuhl, who was wide open on the near post.

Luginbuhl laced his shot into the open net to put the Mules ahead, 1-0. It was his first goal of the season, but the junior midfielder was not finished.

In the 63rd minute, Luginbuhl was on the far side of Washington's box. The Shoremen goalie leaped for a ball, but could not handle it. The ball bounced right to Luginbuhl, who once again found the wide-open net.

"I was just in the right place at the right time both times and luckily they went in," he said. "On the second one the goalie bobbled it and I was just there for the taking."

Steve Giannacio and Cody Antonini also added goals for the Mules (7-0-4, 2-0-3), who remain undefeated on the season. Giannacio's goal was the first of his career, while Antonini's gives him 13 on the year, surpassing his season-high of 12 set in 2009.

It was also a welcomed offensive outburst after Muhlenberg had tied its previous two Centennial Conference contests. And with three draws already in conference play, Reilly said getting the three points that come with a win is vital to the Mules' chances.
 
"This game was huge because even though their record doesn't show it, they're a quality team. They've played a lot of close games and hung with some of the top teams in the conference," he said. "So it was big to get this win and it's important because we need every point that we can. Ties are good, but we need to start getting some wins here and today was a good start."
Click here for box score.
Click here for complete stats.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 






