






Fluidity | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsFluidity 






Fluidity














Fluidity











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsFluidity 

















Past Exhibitions
 
The Fluidity of Gender: Sculpture by Linda Stein November 21* – December 17, 2011

Artist’s reception: Nov. 30, 4:30 – 6 p.m. Artist’s talk: The Chance to Be Brave, The Courage to Dare Nov. 30, 6:30 – 7:30 p.m.
*Please note this show opens on a Monday due to Thanksgiving recess.
In The Fluidity of Gender artist-activist Linda Stein explores gender roles and stereotypes. Using sculpture and video she reacts to notions about empowerment, sexism — past and present — and the heroic female form. 
Many of the larger-than-life heroic female torsos in this exhibition are incased in black leather and embellished with delicious amounts of metal--utilitarian buckles, chains, zippers, and purely decorative motifs. These forms are a continuation of her sculptural series Knights which she began in 2002 as a response to childhood fears and a search for female symbols of protection. They are designed to scramble gender expectations and to merge opposites— female/male, soft/strong, defensive/aggressive. Viewers may find them jarring and formidable as well as seductive and inviting.
Stein’s leather-clad figures are joined by more colorful and whimsical acrylicized-paper torsos that feature iconic Wonder Woman motifs. Stein continues to ponder the super-power’s masculine strength that seems equally balanced with feminine attributes of compassion and justice. She thinks about, “Wonder Woman stopping the bad guys without ever killing”.
Stein holds degrees from Pratt Institute and Queens College, New York. She has numerous solo and group exhibitions to her credit and is represented by Flomenhaft Gallery, New York and Longstreth Goldberg Art in Florida. Her archives are at Smith College and her website is www.LindaStein.com
A reception for the artist will be held Wednesday, November 30, 4: 30 – 6 p.m. in the Martin Gallery. Guests will have the unique opportunity to try on some of the sculpture and students from Karen Dearborn’s advanced dance composition will perform. Stein will then deliver a slide lecture with Q & A in the adjacent Recital Hall, 6:30 – 7:30. All gallery events and programs are free and open to the public.
A reception for the artist will be held Wednesday, October 12, 4:30 – 6 p.m.
Gallery hours are Tuesdays through Saturdays, 12:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m., and closed during semester breaks and holidays.
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















