






Along the Eastern Road | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAlong the Eastern Road 






Along the Eastern Road














Along the Eastern Road











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsAlong the Eastern Road 

















Past Exhibitions
 
Along the Eastern Road: The Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido March 14 – April 18, 2012

This spring the Martin Art Gallery proudly presents Along the Eastern Road: The Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido a comprehensive exhibition that features 55 color wood-block prints by master Japanese printmaker Utagawa Hiroshige (1797-1858). The historic Tokaido Road linked Edo (now Tokyo) with Kyoto, the ancient imperial capital of Japan. In 1832, Hiroshige, having trained in the tradition of the ukiyo-e (floating world) wood-block print making, journeyed along the entire Tokaido route. He visited each of the fifty-three towns and villages—stations—that provided lodging, refreshments, and souvenirs for the steady traffic of merchants, religious pilgrims and tourists. While staying at these overnight stops, Hiroshige carefully recorded numerous views of each town and the surrounding landscape as well as the people.
Hiroshige’s Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido Road, first published in 1833-1834, became a popular series that established his reputation as the foremost artist of the topographical landscape in Japan at that time. The landscape genre developed late in the ukiyo-e period and had been greatly influenced by the color wood-block prints of another well known Japanese artist, Katsushika Hokusai (1760-1849).
During the last decades of the 19th century, Europeans were introduced, for the first time, to Japanese woodblock prints in large quantities. Many artists of that period, including Mary Cassatt, Vincent Van Gogh, and Toulouse Lautrec were highly influenced by the distinctly different style and exquisite craftsmanship. The influences of flat spatial relationships, asymmetry, and emphasis on diagonal composition became, and remain, part of the vernacular of visual artists world-wide.
This exhibition was organized by the Reading Public Museum, Reading Pennsylvania.

Twenty-sixth Station: Kagegawa, c. 1833-34, from Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido Road, woodblock print, 9“x 14”. Image courtesy of the Reading Public Museum, Reading Pennsylvania.
A reception to celebrate and enjoy and these masterworks will be held Wednesday, March 14, 4:30 – 6:00 p.m. in the Gallery. A wood-block printmaking demonstration by visiting artist Katie Baldwin will be held Thursday, March 29, 12:30 – 1:45 p.m.
All Martin Art Gallery events and programs are free and open to the public. Gallery hours are Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m.; other hours by appointment. Closed during semester breaks and holidays.
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















