








Mule Sports Daily - August 20, 2010













    
		







Friday, August 20, 2010

 June 3 |
			 June 22 |
			 July 28  |
			 August 2
 3
 4
 5
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 30
 31 | September 1












					 

Travel Journal

women's basketball italy trip continues


The Muhlenberg women's basketball team is in Italy through Sunday, and during the week different players will send back reports. Here is how the
last few days went:

Wednesday, August 18 - Katy Rossino, junior
Today we traveled south, from Padua to Montecatini – a town 30 miles outside of Florence famous for its natural springs and spas.   After an early morning breakfast, we loaded the bus and began our drive.  We made a stop in Bologna – the halfway point on today’s drive.
  
Our tour guide took us all around the old part of the city, where we learned about 
the history and culture of Bologna.  Underneath one medieval  tower, we were able to speak to each other by whispering into a wall, and having the acoustics take the sound to another part of the building.  It ended up being very cool, but I was nervous at first when our tour guide told me to stand in the corner facing the wall.  

We later visited the 




University of Bologna and sat in the old anatomy theater from the 1400 and 1500s.  We sat in the very seats that students of that time used to watch bodies being dissected on the marble slab right in front of us.   We saw sculptures and monuments to former faculty members like Galileo and Copernicus.

Once the formal tour was over, we started to explore on our own.  Several members of the team  attempted to climb the tallest tower in Bologna.  Despite the steep narrow stairway, every one of us made it.  The view from the top was  incredible – we were able to see the entire city from a new perspective.  

After  another delicious Italian lunch, we still had time to explore some more.  First a stop at the public restrooms – just a little bit different than back home in America.  For some reason, as Italy raced to the world forefront  in art and culture, no one took the time to invent the toilet seat.  Seriously!

We grabbed some world-famous Italian gelato and then decided to visit 




the fifth-largest church in the world – The Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi.  In deference to the sanctity of the church, we were required to cover our shoulders and legs before going inside.  I personally sported an Al Italia Airlines blanket as a dress  (don’t worry, I’ll return it on the flight home) while other girls wore a variety of scarves, sweaters and t-shirts as clothing substitutes. 

The effort was well worth it, as the building was spectacular, and in fact indescribable.  I have never been inside something so large and yet so intricate.  It is amazing to think about how they were able to build something like this so long ago.  Both sides of the church were lined with numerous smaller chapels that were beautiful in their own right, and showing us that mass takes place in many locations throughout the main building.  The main altar and tabernacle were the size of a small church – much larger  than any I have ever seen.  

Once outside the church we took a few photos and received countless stares 




from other tourists for the contrived outfits we were still wearing.  It was then back on the bus.  Arrival in Montecatini, followed by dinner at the hotel, led to a team excursion to Montecatini Alto – the 1,000-year-old walled city that sits on a mountain top overlooking the modern Montecatini.  

The one-car train that took us from bottom to top was pretty old and the mountain was steep.  We discussed possible escape options if the cable pulling us up the incline snapped, which made the trip pass more quickly.

Once we arrived on top, we had a beautiful view of much of Tuscany.  We examined the  shops and restaurants, and interacted with some of the citizens of Montecatini Alto before making our way back down the mountain on the trolley.  I went to bed very excited for tomorrow’s trip to Florence, where we  will  see Michelangelo’s  David.  Can’t wait!!!!

Thursday, August 19 - Kelly McKeon, senior
Today our excursion was to the city of Florence, thought to be the birthplace of the Renaissance, and considered by many the center of Italian art and culture.  We were given a guided tour of the city, which included a visit to the Galleria de Academia,  home of  “the David.”   I was taken aback by the sheer size of the statue.  I knew it was going to be big, but was not expecting it to be THAT big.
  
We saw many beautiful churches, including “the Duomo” at the center of the city, and the 




famous bronze doors of its Baptistry.  Then we had free time for lunch, after which our team decided  to shop.  Florence is famous for its fine leather, and many of us took this as an opportunity to buy new purses.

Kathleen Naddaff and I stopped by a street artist (of which there are many in Florence) and had caricatures done,  which provided big laughs from other members on our team. 
 
In the evening we played our first game of the trip. (I know you have probably been thinking – isn’t this a “basketball” trip?  But our first game near Venice was cancelled due to some scheduling difficulties – so this was the first time we were in a gym so far.) 

I found it interesting to play by international rules.  It was hard at times because we were unable to communicate with the referees and opposing players, who spoke no English.  Katy Rossino – one of our most fierce and most physical players (if you know Katy you appreciate the humor) proceeded to foul out of the contest, and we didn’t even know it until the referee kept pointing at her and the bench to send her the message.  To our knowledge another Muhlenberg first – she became the first Mule to foul out of an international game!!!

{Coach Rohn gives us the following details on the game against Selezione Dream Team: Muhlenberg 





won 69-58. Leading scorers for Muhlenberg were Alexandra Chili and Sheila Cook with 16, Alexandra Berlin with  11, and Julie Kelly with 9.    

Chili and Cook were the main offensive weapons early as the Mules got out to an early 25-10 lead.  The Italian team came back and cut the lead to  33- 27 with two minutes left in the first half, but a 6-0 run on fast break baskets by Berlin, Alita Zabrecky and Kate Clawson gave Muhlenberg a 39-27 edge at the half.


In the second half, the Mules again extended their margin to 15 points at 53-38, but tired legs from the travel was evident as the Mules had trouble finishing off plays in the final 10 minutes.  The Italian team cut the lead to 63-57 with three minutes remaining, but strong offensive rebounding (led by Zabrecky and Clawson) and foul shooting (3-of-4 from Kelly) allowed Muhlenberg to hold on for the win.  

Kelly McKeon played an excellent floor game, especially after Katy Rossino fouled out with seven minutes left - no easy task after climbing two towers in the past few days for Kelly.  Several behind-the-back and stutter moves in traffic brought ooohs and aaahs from the Italian players and fans in attendance (total at the game including our parents was about 80).}

Friday we begin the last leg of our journey, when we travel to Rome.  With three full days left on our tour, and sites like the Vatican and the Coliseum ahead of us, we plan to make the most of it.

Pictured top to bottom: The Mules on a gondola in Venice, at the Duomo in Florence, at the Basilica San Marco in Venice, at the University of Bologna
anatomy theatre, in front of Neptune's Statue in Bologna; and Alexandra Chili shooting a free throw in the game.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




