






Beautiful People | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsBeautiful People 






Beautiful People














Beautiful People











About the Martin Art GalleryUpcoming ExhibitionsVisiting Artist LecturesPast ExhibitionsThe Permanent CollectionSearch the Permanent Collection











Home
AcademicsLearning EnvironmentsMartin Art GalleryPast ExhibitionsBeautiful People 

















Past Exhibitions
 
Beautiful People October 3 – November 10, 2012

Beautiful People, curated by Muhlenberg art history professor Dr. Margo Thompson, explores how three very different artists—Andy Warhol, Muhsana Ali and Josh Lehrer— respond to the notion of beauty in photographic portraiture.
For Warhol, a pop-art icon of the late 20th century, wealth and fame were critical components and beauty was found on the surface. He said, “If you want to know about Andy Warhol, just look at the surface of my paintings, my films, and me. There I am. There’s nothing behind it.”
Muhsana Ali and Josh Lehrer approach making portraits in a way that is surprisingly similar to Warhol: they represent, in a flattering light, individuals with whom they identify and empathize.
Ali’s subjects are African-American residents of the economically-challenged small town of Mart, Texas, near Waco. She worked with them to create a mosaic mural as part of a local revitalization endeavor, the Mart Community Project. The mural became the backdrop for some of the photographs featured in this show.
The residents of Mart and Ali were all interested in exploring and strengthening notions of community and identity. She facilitated this by providing contemporary garments from Senegal, where she lives. The “photo-performances” she stages of Mart residents wearing Senegalese clothing are transformative: her subjects’ experienced, she reports, “…another time, place, and identity; a sense of temporary self-empowerment and new-found dignity.”
Lehrer photographed homeless transgender teenagers from New York City, residents of a shelter at which he volunteers. Like Warhol, he used instant Polaroid technology, and began his sessions with multiple digital shots, going through hundreds of frames to capture his subjects running through their repertoire of poses. Only when the superficial poses had been exhausted did he bring out his vintage camera and capture what was behind the performative front. Lehrer located and revealed each person’s authentic self that is often hidden by a complex and sometimes troubled surface.
A reception to meet artists Muhsana Ali and Josh Lehrer will be held Wednesday, October 3, 4:30 – 6:00 p.m. in the Gallery. Ali will give a lecture immediately following, 6:30 – 7:30 p.m. and Lehrer will give a gallery talk during Common Hour, Oct. 4, 12:30 – 1:30. The exhibition, reception, and programs are free and open to the public.
Gallery hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon – 8:00 p.m., additional hours by appointment.
 
 
Past Exhibitions
All art images and content are the property of Martin Art Gallery, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA. Any reproduction or distribution of this material without the expressed, written consent of the Martin Art Gallery is prohibited and a violation of federal law. All rights reserved.




















Contact Information 

Paul Nicholson


Director, Martin Art Gallery









Email

paulnicholson@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3467







Address

Muhlenberg College
Baker Center for the Arts
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















