








Mule Sports Daily - August 16, 2010













    
		







Monday, August 16, 2010

 June 3 |
			 June 22 |
			 July 28  |
			 August 2
 3
 4
 5
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 30
 31 | September 1












					 

Travel Journal

barbados day eight:safari browsers


The sixth installment in a journal of the Muhlenberg field hockey team’s trip to Barbados by senior Jess Kasza and junior Cait Teegarden:


{Cait here, I'd like to reassure all of the readers out there that there is no resentment towards me from Shelby. I would also like to reiterate that I am 
completely infatuated with the Bajan accent and that I'm very flattered that my attempt was semi-credible. All the readers must know that Shelby DID 
acquire a puka shell bracelet today during our Island Safari trip, so all is well in the world.}

This morning we woke up around 6:45 and ate breakfast early so that we would be ready to go for our safari trip, which left at 8 a.m. Our safari tour was 
on two different jeeps named Scooby-Doo and Bugs Bunny. I was personally on the Scooby-Doo and it was driven by a man named Dwayne who was great. 

They give you a tour of the island and occasionally some off-roading adventure which revealed some amazing views of the island. I learned today that you 



should always ask about bathroom breaks BEFORE you get into the wide open crop fields, because apparently the drivers make you get out and use the sugar 
crops as shelter. I was the only one out of the 21 of us who went who could not bear to hold it any longer and I definitely had an interesting experience 
because of that. 

Otherwise, we learned all about the history of Barbados as well as the newer additions to the island. Quick facts: the oldest church on the island was 
built in the 1600s, Tiger Woods was apparently married here, and each coast has different types of waves. 

We saw some really great views and scenery and some green monkeys!! They actually ate out of the 



hands of our girls and were more than comfortable around 
humans. Some of the humans, however, were not as comfortable 
with the monkeys (a few girls screamed and jumped). 

For lunch we ate at a restaurant called Niki's with buffet style food and delicious coconut fritters. The meal overall was about a 4.20, mostly because the 
view was incredible. We went back in the jeeps for the journey home and enjoyed some American hits from Renee Norton's iPod through the jeep speakers. 

I heard from a lot of the girls that it was the best day we have had in 




Barbados by far (even if it was raining the whole time). When we got back, 
around 2, we enjoyed a little beach/pool time before our beach workout at 5. We had to do sprints and an ab workout before we were released to go get 
changed for dinner. 

For dinner we went to an area called the St. Lawrence Gap; it is a strip of restaurants and shops along the bay. We split up for dinner because we got to 
choose which place we ate at and our team is kind of indecisive. One group went to a place called Mc Brides and the other went to Paulo's Churrasco. 
Both were great and I was told they both should get at least 4.3's. After dinner we all met up and had some fun as a team on our second to last night 
in Barbados. 

Tomorrow we go on our Catamaran Cruise and celebrate our last full day here on the island; should be another great Monday!!













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




