








Mule Sports Daily - August 13, 2010













    
		







Friday, August 13, 2010

 June 3 |
			 June 22 |
			 July 28  |
			 August 2
 3
 4
 5
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25
 26
 27
 30
 31 | September 1












					 

Travel Journal

barbados day five:mules underwater


The fifth installment in a journal of the Muhlenberg field hockey team’s trip to Barbados by senior Jess Kasza and
junior Cait Teegarden:



I absolutely cannot believe that it is day five already; time is just flying by. This morning we had breakfast at 8:30 and headed off the a place called 
Barbados Blue to do our scuba diving and jet skiing. The little shop was right next to this giant Hilton hotel so it seemed overlooked but it was great. 

We got there and our other tour guide Melissa (Domonic's sister) was ready to help us out. We got inside the building and waiting there was this 
seemingly lovely woman. I say seemingly because after telling her that I had an ear infection, she made me talk to the doctor, who wouldn't let me go scuba 



diving. Needless to say I was upset and went jet skiing instead. 

This, however, ended up being a very good thing because I got to see flying fish, a sea turtle, and Jaclyn Todisco flying off the back of our 
jetski as I hit a wave too hard. The scuba divers had a great time from what I was told (after I got past my jealousy). 

{Cait here again, picking up at the sore subject that Jess has left off at - I also got to experience firsthand her resentment as I let out strange noises 
of fear and excitement while clinging to the back of her as we hurdled over the open waves. I also chose the less claustrophobic/exotic (depends on your 
average anxiety level) activity, but did get reports that there were fun fish to look at if you could get past the nervousness of diving down deep enough.

Lunch was picnic-style and was homemade by Domonic and Melissa's mom. The menu included some pretty tasty burgers (veggie and carnivore) and some ham 



"cutters," sandwiches consisting of freshly baked ham and whatever condiment our stomachs desired. Jess is sitting here next to me urging me to give the 
grub a 3.75, but we're bumping the rating up to a 4 out of 5 because of the mama-made lemonade with some lime juice sneaked in. FABULOUS.

As for the game later, I'm going to take the Bajan attitude of "ay, no problem" in regards to the outcome. Needless to say, field hockey comes 
VERY naturally to our competition. It's still fun to play against these girls as it's a very competitive style of play. I like to say we're just 
sweating out all of the kinks before the real season starts. On a very cute note, two little Bajan children joined us on our sideline, perhaps a 
tactic of uber-precious distraction??? I dunno, I'm going to look into it ...

Dinner at Bert's again, no new happenings on this front, although I must say we are slowly (pun intended) getting used to the way in which all eateries 




take their time in delivering food despite any effort to call ahead. All right, I'm off to nurse my relentless sunburns as we all retire for the night in 
preparation for another early morning (7 a.m.) practice. Our final game is tomorrow at 3 p.m. and we hope to end it on a positive note!}  

Okay, I'm back, just wanted to say thanks to Cait for picking up on my sour subject there. Tomorrow is in fact our last game and hopefully we will get 
some good momentum going for our return back to America and the Centennial Conference competition. 

Also, back to what I first said, time is flying by. Tonight our trip is officially halfway through and none of us are really ready to believe it. 
We are excited to come back and see our families, though, and I feel inclined to give a shout-out to all the parents who have been reading this blog ... 
THANK YOU! Thanks to everyone else too, of course. Happy Friday to everyone out there!













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




