








Mule Sports Daily - April 24, 2010













    
		







Saturday, April 24, 2010 - page 2

 March 31 |
	April 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30 |
	May 1












					 


record day for baseball seniorsdoesn’t include playoff berth


All three Muhlenberg baseball seniors, playing at home for the final time, broke or tied major school records and/or reached career milestones. The Mules came back from early deficits in both games of the doubleheader, sending the first into extra innings and winning the second in walkoff fashion. What more could you ask for?

Easy. One more win.

Needing two wins to qualify for the Centennial Conference playoffs, Muhlenberg fell 




Fisher had three extra-base hits, two doubles and a triple, all to almost the same spot in left-center, in his first three at-bats of the day. He also made a 
sensational diving catch of a line drive with the bases loaded in the second game.



just short, losing the first game to Washington, 9-5 in nine innings, before rallying with three in the ninth to take the nightcap, 8-7. The Mules (16-18) finished the CC season with a 9-9 record, one game behind Washington (16-13), which clinched its first playoff berth in 26 years with the win in Game 1.

The split put a damper on a day in which the seniors, honored in between games for putting their names all over the record books, continued to do just that:

• Dan Fisher broke three school records by going 5-for-10 with three doubles and a triple. He set the career marks for runs scored (138) and doubles (39) and broke his own season mark for doubles (15). He also closed to within two of tying the school record of 49 runs scored in a season.

• Eric Pomroy singled in a run in the bottom of the seventh of Game 2 for his 100th career RBI. He is only the second player in team history to reach the century mark in both runs scored and RBI.

• Phil Cresta, the starter in Game 1, came on to finish the nightcap 
and earned the win. It was the 21st win of his career, tying the school record that had been unmatched for 30 years. 

And a junior got in on the record act as well, as Joseph DiCecilia broke the school record for hits in a season (59). He also hit his ninth home run of the season – his first at Cedarcreek Field – in the second game.

The Shoremen kept the Mules playing catchup in the opener, scoring two runs in the top of the first. Muhlenberg tied the score in the bottom of the inning, but Washington added single runs in the second and third to go up 4-2. The Shoremen tacked on another run in the fifth and took a 5-3 lead into the bottom of the sixth.

With their playoff dreams six outs from being extinguished, the Mules rallied in the sixth. DiCecilia led off by taking an outside pitch to right field for a single and moved to second when sophomore Brian Beck was hit by a pitch. After junior Clint Lynch sacrificed the runners over, junior Eli Branzburg shot a single through the right side to bring in DiCecilia.

The Shoremen brought in their senior closer, who leads the CC with seven saves, and Muhlenberg 




An unsuspecting Cresta got a shaving-cream pie in the face following his record-tying win. The lefty fanned five in his two outings to move into third place on the
Mules’ all-time list with 179 career strikeouts.





countered with freshman Jimmy Aramanda as a pinch-hitter. The younger player got the better of this matchup, chopping a single to the right of the shortstop to bring home Beck with the tying run.

The Mules got their leadoff runner on in the bottom of the seventh but could not score him, and the game went into extra innings. In the top of the ninth, Washington broke the tie by scoring four runs on five hits, and Muhlenberg went down without a score in its half of the inning.

Late rallying resulted in a better outcome in the nightcap. Down 5-2, the Mules scored three times in the bottom of the seventh on Pomroy’s milestone hit, an infield out and an RBI single by Lynch, to tie the score. The Shoremen went back up in front by scoring twice in the top of the eighth.

In the bottom of the ninth, Muhlenberg loaded the bases with nobody out on two walks and a hit batter. Beck, the next batter, quickly fell into an 0-2 hole, then worked the count back to 3-2 before lining a single into right to tie the game.

An infield single by Lynch loaded the bases again, and after a force at home, Aramanda delivered off the bench again. He took a very close 2-2 pitch for a ball, then took the next pitch as well to complete the walkoff walk.

The first walkoff victory for the Mules this season enabled the seniors to walk off their home field as winners, even if Senior Day did not bring them everything they desired.

“It was great to get that win for them,” said junior Bobby Spindler. “The seniors provide great leadership and motivate us to do well on and off the field. It’s great to play on a team with such a great bunch of seniors.”
Click here for line scores.
Click for complete stats: Game 1 | Game 2













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




