








Muhlenberg College Athletics













    
		








Wednesday, February 27, 2008 - page 2

 January 31 |
	February
1
2
4
5
6
7
8
9
11
12
13
14
15
16
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29 |
	March 1












					 

Championship Preview

track teams take mark at conference meet


Runners take your mark.  It is funny how those four words can elicit a flurry of emotions.  Whether it is feelings of excitement, nervousness or confidence, 
one thing the Muhlenberg men’s and women’s track and field teams should not be feeling at the starting line is unprepared.

Senior captains Adam Carter and Emily Karel both expressed that their teammates are ready to take on the Centennial Conference’s best athletes this weekend 



Karel earned a silver medal with the 4x200-meter relay team and a bronze with the 4x400 at last year’s CC indoor meet.



at the Indoor Championships, which start at noon on Saturday and continue at 10:30 on Sunday at Ursinus’ Floy Lewis Bakes Field House.

“I would tell the underclassmen to just believe in themselves.  They have worked extremely hard and they have put in the hours and so there is no reason for them 
not to believe in their abilities,” says Carter.

When asked what advice she would give to the underclassmen, Karel also expressed similar feelings.  “The most important thing now is to believe in your training.  
Show everybody all the hard work you have done and put your heart out on the track and good things are going to happen.”

If the previous meets are any indication of what this track and field team is capable of, then good things are bound to happen.

Sophomore Alex Faust looks to defend her title in the pole vault, where she leads the field with a NCAA provisional height of 11-9.  
She is also expected to help the team in numerous running events.

Faust, who was named Most Outstanding Performer for field events at the 2007 CC indoor meet, will be getting help from fellow sophomore Debra Crockett, 
who was the runner-up in the shot put last year and who shattered her school record this year by 14 inches.  Junior Lucy Brock will represent the Mules in the 
55 hurdles, where she is coming off setting her personal best in the event.  And look out for senior Erika Koop in the field events and Karel in the running events, 
as well as sophomore Lauren Conicella and freshmen 



On the CC performance list, Carter is ranked fourth in the high jump, ninth in the 55-meter high hurdles and 10th in the long jump.


Hannah Mitchell, Abby Simons, Kim Bier and Kate Mahoney in the distance events.

On the men’s side, juniors David Chorney, Timothy Van Syckle and Stuart Udis are expected to have strong performances in the distance events.  
Udis is currently first on the conference performance list in the 800, and he is only .82 seconds off the NCAA provisional qualifying time.  Also look for strong 
performances from sophomores Patrick Thornton and freshman Bobby Torphy as well as the young 4x800 relay team, which despite its youth will look to hold 
on to its first-place standing in the conference.

In shorter running events, sophomores Jeremiah Lachaud and Brendan Kirk look to place in their respective events.  
Kirk has had an outstanding season so far, gaining personal bests in the 55 hurdles and the 400 earlier.  
In addition, look for good marks from Carter both in the field and on the track, and fellow senior captain Dan Steinhart in the sprints.

So when the gun goes off at her last indoor conference championship meet, Karel only has one objective for this young team: “Do the most you can so that you come home 
smiling on Sunday night.”  After all the success the track and field teams have experienced so far, there is no reason for them not to be smiling.  

Click here for the championship Web site.













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




