








Muhlenberg College Athletics













    
		








Friday, February 22, 2008

 January 31 |
	February
1
2
4
5
6
7
8
9
11
12
13
14
15
16
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29 |
	March 1












					 

Indoor track and field


Season Preview

men’s lacrosse seeks playoff berth



If the Muhlenberg men’s lacrosse team keeps progressing the way it has been in the past four seasons, then there will be nothing wrong to expect the first winning season since the program was reinstated in 2003.

“I hope that we realize our potential and that we enjoy the experience and the challenges that our season 



Dwyre is seventh in team history with 83 career ground balls.



will present us with,” said head coach Chris Bissinger, who took over the reins of the team in 2005. 

After losing three starters to graduation, Muhlenberg returns the core of last year’s squad, including nine seniors.

A season ago, senior midfielder Kyle Farris was selected to the All-Centennial Conference team for second consecutive year. The Pottstown, Pa., native led the Mules in goals (20) and ranked second in points (25). Farris needs 13 goals in his senior season to become Muhlenberg’s all-time leading goal-scorer.

“We want to make the playoffs,” said Farris, who is one of the four team captains along with seniors Tim Dwyre, Tim Martin and Mike Brown. “It’s an ambitious goal but this year we have the potential to do it.” 

Helping Farris in the midfield will be Brown, whose pace and athleticism might be vital.

Sophomore Ari Jacobson and junior Nick Fletcher will add versatility and great speed to the offensive unit. Other players who are primed to develop into strong attacking threats are seniors Dwyre and Josh Mosberg and sophomores Sean Delany and Al Carpetto.

Martin and junior Cade McCarthy will vie for playing time as defensive midfielders.
 
Three players will be in charge of the faceoff duties - junior Dan Dugan, who was fifth in CC in faceoff percentage in 2007, and sophomores Robbie Lynch and Joel Garfinkel.  

The Mule offense will be paced by junior 



Mosberg earned his first varsity letter last year as a faceoff wing and defensive middie.



attackman Andrew Lolley and senior Mickey Norton. Last year, Lolley was third on team in points (24) and goals (18), while Norton, who is Muhlenberg’s key playmaker, led the team in assists, adding 15 to his school-record tally of 55 career helpers.

A couple of sophomores, Paul Munday and Ivan Asplundh, will provide depth and versatility to Mules’ attacking unit.

“We have definitely improved offensively,” Dwyre said. “Our attack is better than ever before and, hopefully, it will translate to more goals this season.”

Junior John DeLuca will be a mainstay in the defensive lineup for Muhlenberg. Senior Luke Silverman and sophomores Matthew Schroeder and Ivan Brown also are figured to see significant action in the back.

Sophomore T.J. Dugan will occupy the position of longstick midfielder, while senior Carlo Morrongiello and junior Joseph Pisano round out the defensive formation.

Once again sophomore goalkeeper Andrew Bell will have the difficult task of denying the other teams’ offense. During his freshman year, Bell made 114 stops in 12 starts.

The Mules play in the fierce Centennial Conference, which is, beyond doubt, one of the most competitive leagues in Division III. At the conclusion of the 2007 season all nine CC members were ranked in the top 50 by laxpower.com, a feat not matched by any other conference. 

“The competition is so much fun and it helps us recruit competitive student-athletes because they realize how strong the competition is and they appreciate the fact that they will have an opportunity to play with and against great players,” said Bissinger.

Three CC teams rank in the top 20 of the preseason USILA Division III poll – No.2 Gettysburg, No. 11 Washington College and No. 19 Haverford.

The Mules open their powerhouse-saturated schedule Monday night with a home matchup against No. 20 Stevens.

“We just have to come out, play hard and be physical,” Martin said about the clash with the first nationally ranked opponent the squad will face this campaign.

“We can’t wait to get the season underway,” Brown added.



									













Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




