






Online Resources | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesWriting CenterOnline Resources 






Online Resources














Online Resources











Tutorial ProgramsWriting StrategiesOnline ResourcesAcademic Integrity











Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesWriting CenterOnline Resources 













Online Resources
Faculty: Click here for resources offered on the Writing Program blog
Resources on Grammar & the Writing Process Use these links to help you with the writing process and writing projects. Many colleges and universities have created various reference-oriented sites that provide scholarly and effective instruction on the writing process. A brief list of resources follows: Interactive Grammar Quizzes  This link from the Endicot College Writing Center offers a series of interactive quizzes on identifying basic sentence parts, grammar constructions, and punctuation.
OWL - Purdue University's Online Writing Lab Purdue's "OWL" is a tremendously helpful and useful site for student writers, faculty, and Writing Center staff alike. For the student writer, it includes a guide to help find writing resources on the Internet, student/faculty handouts that can help when the need arises to review basic writing skills and terminology, as well as a very extensive guide to "professional writing" (resumes, cover letters, etc.)
For Writing Center Tutors and Writing Assistants, OWL also includes several complete "Power Point" presentations that you may find invaluable when planning writing workshops. 
The Writer's Web The Writer's Web is an on-line handbook created and maintained by Richmond University's Writing Center and WAC program staff, both students and faculty. Topics included on this page are: how to get started writing, writing first drafts, focusing and connecting ideas, analysis and argument, editing a draft, peer editing strategies, punctuation, sentence structure and mechanics, editing for clarity and style, documentation, using sources effectively, and writing on-line.
Writing Thesis Statements This page, created by the University of Indiana, is a concise and example-oriented guide to writing powerful and effective thesis statements.
Taking an Essay Exam Also created by the University of Indiana, this page describes techniques for preparing for, taking and editing an essay exam. It covers strategies for making the essay effective.
The Writer's Handbook The Handbook is created by the University of Wisconsin and offers concise instruction on writing both academically and creatively, on editing for style, on documentation styles and on writing for varied disciplines (including science).
Encyclopedia Brittanica For fact-checking and verification.
The Nuts and Bolts of College Writing This page is a companion to the book of the same name. It covers style, structure, evidence and mechanics.
The Elements of Style Strunk & White's usage and style guide.
Merriam-Webster's Dictionary and Thesaurus (with usage guide) http://www.m-w.com/netdict.htm
International Writing Centers Association http://writingcenters.org/index.php This site is a great writing resource that encompasses various aspects of the Writing Center. For those interested in looking at other college or university Writing Centers, the site provides an extensive list. The NWCA site also includes several different resources for the Writing Center, such as relevant on-line articles, tutor stories, e-mail discussion groups and many other resources for both writers and Writing Center members. A great source for various aspects of the Writing Center, including a list of numerous other college and university Writing Centers. Also includes articles and resources for the Writing Center, including Tutor Stories and E-Mail discussion groups and links to other writing resources.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















