








Muhlenberg College Athletics













    
		








Wednesday, August 29, 2007 - page 2

 Summer Stories |
	August
27
28
29
30
31 |
	September 1












					
 
Season Preview
YOUNGSTERS ABOUND FOR WOMEN’S SOCCER


At least there are no identical twins this time ...

For the second year in a row, the upperclassmen on the 



Hendsey was the only Mule to start all 19 games last year, and she also scored her first career goal.




Muhlenberg women’s soccer team spent a good portion of the preseason learning new names and faces. Last season, the freshman class numbered 13, and this year there were 11 newcomers. 

The result is an incredibly young team that will look to continue its 
upward trend, beginning this weekend at Kean’s Cougar Classic. The Mules tied for second in Division III with a nine-win improvement from 2005 to 2006, finishing 13-6 overall and 7-3 in the Centennial Conference. 

A close inspection of the roster shows three seniors, three juniors, 11 sophomores and 11 freshmen. But one of the seniors and one of the juniors may not play this year due to injuries, and the other two juniors were injured for most of last season.

“What we lack in experience we make up for in talent,” said senior 
Maura Hendsey, who has started 



Francis enters the 2007 season with six career points.




all 53 games at back the last three years. “The sophomores have stepped up into leadership positions, and the freshmen add a lot of talent.

“We have subs for people at every position,” she added. “It’s the best it’s been since I’ve been here.”

The 2006 team, which won a CC playoff game, had nine seniors to go along with its large rookie group. Muhlenberg experimented with several lineups and struggled to a 4-5 start, then settled in and reeled off nine straight wins.

“I think we have a better 
idea of where to put people at the start of this year,” remarked Hendsey. “The sophomores are the nucleus of the team, and it’s just a matter of filling in spots around them.”

The Mules’ top three returning scorers are all sophomore forwards, Christina O’Grady (16 points) and twins 
Kasey (11) and Kimberly (10) Hacker. O’Grady was the team’s top scorer in CC matches with 12 points. Midfielders 
Jayne Condon and Christine Schaefer both saw extensive action as freshmen last year, and senior 
Megan Francis adds some rare experience, having played in 38 career games.

Hendsey is the veteran on a back three that returns intact from last year. Muhlenberg went 9-1 with seven shutouts after sophomore 
Samantha Hoffman moved into the starting lineup at center back, and sophomore 
Ashley O’Grady – like her twin sister – earned second-team All-CC honors.

The one spot where the Mules lack both experience and depth is goalie. Sophomore 
Kate Morrissey, who played in three games last year, is the lone ’keeper on the roster.

















Muhlenberg® College2400 Chew St.Allentown, PA 18104-5586484.664.3100484.664.3623  (TTY)
					




Groupwise WebAccess

 Contact  Feedback  College Home (text-only)
Electronic Communication and Information Policy  Disability Services   Accessibility Guidelines






 
 
 




