






Human Resources Leadership | Muhlenberg College









































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit








Apply








Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Muhlenberg College School of Continuing StudiesPrograms & Course OfferingsAccelerated Degree ProgramsHuman Resources Leadership 






Human Resources Leadership














Human Resources Leadership












Tuition and Fees

Financial Aid

Request More Information
Apply Now
Accelerated Degree Programs

View All Programs & Degrees













Home
Muhlenberg College School of Continuing StudiesPrograms & Course OfferingsAccelerated Degree ProgramsHuman Resources Leadership 













Business Administration with a concentration in Human Resources Leadership (BBA)

The concentration in Human Resources Leadership complements a solid grounding in management and leadership designed to equip the student to become a transformational leader. The concentration has been developed with the aim of providing business majors the opportunity to broaden their skill base in a growing area and for HR professionals the opportunity to move from the transactional side of their function to a transformational role in the enterprise of the future. Using a project-based learning model, coursework aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of why such a change is needed in the leadership of the human resources function.
The structure of classes reinforces the importance of experiential and team-based learning. Students are teamed and work together on projects and presentations both inside and outside of the classroom. Students are encouraged and expected to voice their opinions and reflect on their learning. Classes take many forms but generally consist of some lecture with real life application of theory, class discussions, review of assignments and presentations.
Learning OutcomesCurriculum Road Map - Human Resources Leadership
Upon graduating from Muhlenberg College, students in the Accelerated Business Administration Program will demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:   *Leadership. *Teamwork. *Oral and written communication.   *Critical thinking. *Quantitative analysis. *Research.
Graduates will apply those skills to:

Clearly identify the challenge and implicit aspect of an issue and articulate the integral elements essential to its resolution.
Apply solid business principles in order to propose effective and innovative solutions.
Appreciate the complexity of issues pertaining to globalism and diversity and gain an understanding of their own values and biases.
Understand the ethical dimensions involved in decision making.
Look holistically at organizational issues and make appropriate recommendations.

Course Descriptions for the Bachelor's of Business Administration in Human Resources Leadership.

I would like to schedule an advisement meeting.
If you have any additional questions or would like to speak with an academic advisor, please contact us at 484-664-3300 or continuingstudies@muhlenberg.edu .


Associates
For some students, this is a great way to earn a needed degree while they work toward a bachelor's degree. For others, an associate's degree provides the focused, two-year experience necessary to succeed. No matter what your plans, our academic advisors are always there to help you chart your course of study. The Associate of Arts Degree requires the completion of 12 courses as General Academic Requirements and 5 courses in a concentration: Business Administration, Accounting, Computer Science, or Psychology.
 


General Academic Requirements (12 courses)

1. First Year Seminar (FYS)
7. History (H)


2. Reasoning (G)
8. Diversity (D)


3. Literature (L)
9. Human Behavior & Social Institutions (B)*


4. Fine Arts (A)
10. Human Behavior & Social Institutions (B)*


5. Philosophy (P)
11. Life Sciences & Physical Sciences (S)**


6. Religion (R)
12. Life Sciences & Physical Sciences (S)**




 * courses must be from different departments **courses must be from different departments


One of Four Possible Concentrations (5 courses)


Accounting


Business Administration




13. ECN 101 Macroeconomics


13. ECN 101 Macroeconomics




14. ECN 102 Microeconomics


14. ECN 102 Microeconomics




15. ACT 101 Financial Accounting


15. ACT 101 Financial Accounting




16. ACT 201 Accounting Information Systems


16. BUS 236 Management




17. ACT 224 Cost/Managerial Accounting


17. BUS 239 Marketing




* choose MTH 104 Statistical Methods as "G" for GAR


* choose MTH 104 Statistical Methods as "G" for GAR



 
 



Computer Science


Psychology




13. CSI 110 Computer Science I


13. PSY 101 Introduction to Psychology




14. CSI 111 Computer Science II


14. PSY 103 Psychological Statistics (prerequisite of MTH 104)




15. CSI 240 Computer Organization


15. PSY 104 Research Methods in Psychology




16. Approved CS Elective


16. PSY elective (chosen from "Fundamental Processes")




17. Approved CS Elective


17. PSY elective (chosen from "Social & Personality ")




* choose MTH 121 Calculus I as "G" for GAR


* choose MTH 104 Statistical Methods as "G" for GAR




 




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion










Social








Facebook








Twitter








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit








Apply








Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts






 
 
 


















