






Judy Parker | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPhysicsFaculty & StaffJudy Parker 






Judy Parker














Judy Parker











Brett FademAdam ClarkMerritt JacobJudy ParkerCharles CollettJeffrey WetherholdTraci Hilbert











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPhysicsFaculty & StaffJudy Parker 













Judy Parker ‌ Adjunct Lecturer 107 Trumbower Science Building (484)664-3956 Fax: (484)664-3546

Background Ed. D. Adult Continuing Education, Teachers College / Columbia University M. A. Adult Continuing Education, Teachers College / Columbia University M.S. Physics, Purdue University B.S. Physics, Notre Dame College
I earned my B.S. in Physics with minors in mathematics and education from Notre Dame College in Cleveland, Ohio, an M.S. in Physics from Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana and an M.A. and Ed.D. in Adult and Continuing Education from Teachers College/Columbia University in New York.
I taught college physics and astronomy and then spent over 20 years with 3M in St. Paul, Minnesota, first working in the research and development area and then designing and delivering training programs for the growing global technical community in Europe and Asia. I continued to teach as an adjunct instructor at the College of St. Catherine in St. Paul including two January term astronomy courses to undergraduates from area colleges under the skies of the southern hemisphere. One trip took us to New Zealand and the next to four islands in French Polynesia. I have been elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a member of Sigma Pi Sigma (Physics Honor Society). I have been awarded the National Association of Academies of Science Distinguished Service Award, the 3M Technical Circle of Excellence Award, and the American Association of Physics Teachers Innovative Teaching Award.
My professional interests have focused on the effective use of technology in teaching and learning and resulted in the publication of the following three chapters in three recent books: "The Online Adult Learner: Profiles and Practices", "Adult Learning Principles as the Foundation for Innovative Technology Applications in Business and Higher Education" and "Adult Learning and CTE: A Shared History Influenced by Technology"
My professional interests have included the encouragement of women in science and the engagement of the public in science. I initiated a Women in Science program at 3M, have served as president of the National Association of Academies of Science and as a member of the American Association for the Advancement's national Committee on the Public Understanding of Science.
On a personal note, I enjoy collecting antiques and relaxing in my 160+ year home



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















