






Fall 2019 or later | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPhysicsCurriculumDual Degree EngineeringFall 2019 or later 






Fall 2019 or later














Fall 2019 or later











Courses and RequirementsTeacher CertificationDual Degree EngineeringRequest More Information











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPhysicsCurriculumDual Degree EngineeringFall 2019 or later 












Engineering Dual Degree Program (Fall 2019 or later)
Muhlenberg College has a dual degree program in engineering and applied science with the engineering school at Columbia University in New York City. The program offers students the ability to earn both a BS degree from Muhlenberg College and a BS in engineering from Columbia University.
Typically, a student spends three years at Muhlenberg and two years at the engineering school, hence the term 3-2 program. Many students opt to spend the full four years at Muhlenberg followed by two years at the engineering school, the 4-2 program.
Employers tend to look very favorably on students who graduate from these programs. Columbia's engineering school reports that, in recent years, the dual degree students have had better job opportunities, with higher starting salaries, than students who go directly through traditional engineering programs. Employers value the reasoning, critical thinking, problem-solving and communications skills which students acquire at the liberal arts college. These skills, combined with the outstanding technical preparation from the engineering courses, make for an attractive job candidate.
 Columbia University offers engineering programs in the following areas:




Applied Mathematics
Applied Physics


Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering


Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering


Computer Science
Earth & Environmental Engineering


Electrical Engineering
Engineering Mechanics


Engineering and Management Systems
Industrial Engineering


Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering


Operations Research
 



For students starting Fall 2019 or later, the prerequisite courses taken at Muhlenberg for the all dual degree concentrations at Columbia University are as follows, 



Mathematics
Calculus I, II and III (Math 121, 122 and 223)





Physics
PHY 121: General Physics I, PHY 122: General Physics II and PHY 241 or PHY 242: Thermal and Statistical Physics


Chemistry
General Chemistry I (Chemistry 103)


Computer Science
Computer Science II (CSI 111)


English Composition
First-Year Seminar (FYS)


Economics
Principles of Macroeconomics (ECN 101) or Principles of Microeconomics (ECN 102)



Additional courses may be required, specific to a particular program. Detailed information can be found in Muhlenberg Pre-engineering Curriculum Guide. Detailed descriptions of the courses contained in the guide can be found here.
Interested students should consult with the College's program liaison officer, Department Chair Adam Clark, to determine the equivalent courses at Muhlenberg.
Students apply to the dual- degree engineering program after they arrive at Muhlenberg. A student interested in this program is strongly advised to contact the program liaison officer in the first or second semester. The application to the program is made in the winter of the third year (for the 3/2 program) or fourth year (the 4/2 program) at Muhlenberg. Students must complete all of Muhlenberg's general academic requirements and all of their major requirements before transferring to Columbia. Students in the 3-2 program transfer course credits from the engineering school back to Muhlenberg College to complete the 32-course graduation requirement. The engineering school does not specify any particular undergraduate major for admission to the program; however, some majors at Muhlenberg are more appropriate than others, depending on the specific engineering field the student wishes to pursue. For example, students interested in Mechanical, Civil, or Electrical Engineering or Materials Science should consider majoring in either Physics or Physical Science, while students interested in Chemical Engineering could consider a Chemistry major.
Columbia will review all applicants in a holistic and competitive review process. While they expect students to meet the following guidelines, they will also consider overall academic preparation and fit for Columbia. Students should have at least 3.3 overall average. In addition, a student should achieve a pre-engineering GPA of 3.3 and the minimum grade in each pre-engineering science and mathematics prerequisite course should be a B the first time the course is taken. Pre-engineering prerequisite courses should be taken at Muhlenberg. Positive letters of recommendation from the College liaison officer, a science professor and a mathematics professor are required. Students must also have completed a minimum of two years full-time at Muhlenberg College. Students who do not achieve the requirements may still be admitted, but admission is not automatic.
There is no longer guaranteed admissions to the program by meeting guidelines. Students are strongly encouraged to take all pre-engineering courses at Muhlenberg. In the rare instance when taking a course elsewhere is necessary, the dual-degree liaison must approve the course before it is taken. This approval is in addition to the approval of the appropriate department chair.
Columbia's Combined Plan Curriculum Guide can be found here.
For additional information about Columbia's Combined Plan program click here:
http://undergrad.admissions.columbia.edu/apply/combined-plan
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















