






Katie Dunphy 03 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2003Katie Dunphy 03 






Katie Dunphy 03













Katie Dunphy 03











Nick Rounds 03Natalie Silvereman 03Michelle Marano 03Janiel Pfaff 03Courtney Russell 03Megan Goldberg 03Katie Dunphy 03Kimberly Laurino 03Adam Cavanaugh 03Diane Reilly 03Samantha Evans 03











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2003Katie Dunphy 03 











 Katie Dunphy Silences and sounds in media coverage of war and the environmentHere's one way of asking the question: "Instead of watching the news each night on television, or devouring the newspaper each morning, say you heard only one newscast a week, or read every third or fourth issue of Newsweek. If you reflected carefully on what you did read, I think in some ways you'd understand more about the planet." - Bill McKibbenDuring this time of intense international crisis, we as Communication students have a particular responsibility to call upon our experiences and education to foster conversation. I have chosen to share with my peers my source attribution study that is currently in progress. I am studying popular press coverage of war's impact on the environment. This project is an avenue in which to discover what is being covered and who is being highlighted through this coverage. Who are "credible" sources and why are they credible? What stories are being told and which are being silenced? What agenda's are being advanced and which are not? These questions are integral in the study of media. Professional practices of sourcing and constructing objectivity have continuously been a basis for conversation in class and here is a practical way of observing and analyzing these theories. For sourcing and objectivity ultimately shape the sounds and silences of our media and its relationship to the environment. Inspiration for this study has been drawn from Rachel Carson, Bill McKibben and Michael Fro

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















