






Katie Kohler 04 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2004Katie Kohler 04 






Katie Kohler 04













Katie Kohler 04











Justin Deutsch 04Nick Preneta 04Michael Hogentogler 04Lindsey Aspinall 04Elizabeth Kelsey 04Katie Kohler 04Lauren Lopchinsky 04Justin Buchbinder 04











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2004Katie Kohler 04 











 Katie Kohler Writing and Media Production at "Just for Kids"I began volunteering at an Allentown after-school program, Just for Kids, in my sophomore year while taking Documentary Research. My work has continued up through the current semester. During Documentary Research, I became concerned with the corporate interests that are encroaching upon education and that treat youth as passive consumers instead of active citizens. Exploring this subject, I decided that I wanted to implement a writing program at JFK that would help the youth to find an active voice in their immediate community. This community included their peers, the Muhlenberg volunteers, and other adult volunteers from the Church of the Mediator where the program was held. Whether commercial passivity was at work or not (for I found many other factors that could have been at work), "middle school" age youth often did (and do) not actively speak out in their community. My goal was to help them speak out through the development of a newsletter that was written by the youth with assistance from other volunteers and me. This project closely connected to the aims of social justice, because it taught the youth that what they had to say in their community did (and does) matter. Teaching youth to have a voice in their community is essential for instilling democratic ideals in the next generation. In my presentation, I will also briefly talk about my continuing work at JFK. This semester I am in the process of developing a "JFK talent CD" in which the youth will have a chance to record their own talents (e.g. singing, spoken word poetry or stories).

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















