






Michael Hogentogler 04 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2004Michael Hogentogler 04 






Michael Hogentogler 04













Michael Hogentogler 04











Justin Deutsch 04Nick Preneta 04Michael Hogentogler 04Lindsey Aspinall 04Elizabeth Kelsey 04Katie Kohler 04Lauren Lopchinsky 04Justin Buchbinder 04











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2004Michael Hogentogler 04 











 Michael J. Hogentogler China, Media Policy, and Censorship in the 21st CenturyMy research with Dr. John L. Sullivan of the Communication Department at Muhlenberg College focused on the issue of globalization and its effects on media policies across the globe. Specifically, we examined the People's Republic of China as a case study in globalization and media policy, and the research covers a wide variety of issues related to the Chinese media infrastructure. An analysis of the country's historical past and present day policies reveals a system full of corruption, political influence, and direct censorship of the media. By evaluating current theories of censorship and media policies, one will obtain an in-depth examination of the Chinese media system, current forms of censorship, a historical and current perspective on the media industry, as well as recommendations and an outlook for the future.In addition to this research on censorship policies and practices within China, we conducted a content analysis comparing media coverage in the days immediately following the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. By examining articles published in several U.S. and Chinese media outlets, we evaluated how these policies and practices of censorship within China actually influenced modern press coverage. From manipulation of their own people to direct censorship of the press, the Chinese political sphere wields unprecedented power, and the effects of globalization are severely constraining their influence today. By evaluating the effects of globalization and censorship on new media policies through a detailed historical perspective and modern content analysis, one can gain a better understanding of globalization and its effects on the Chinese press coverage and its readership.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















