






Kristen Ziegler 06 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2006Kristen Ziegler 06 






Kristen Ziegler 06













Kristen Ziegler 06











Courtney Tapkas 06Kristen Ziegler 06Meredith Williams 06Lindsay Orosz 06LiliAna Andreano 06Robin DeCicco 06Anne-Marie Leiser 06











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2006Kristen Ziegler 06 











 Kristen Ziegler Reflecting on the Ethics of Journalism: Coming to Terms with Negative ExperiencesIt was only in reading the question on a fellowship application, "Why did you become a journalist?" that I scoured my memory for the reason why I joined a profession that I had hated for the majority of my life. When I was younger, five students at my high school were killed in a violent car crash and many people found out about their friends' deaths when reporters stuck a microphone in their face and asked for a reaction. This was not my first bad experience with the news media, nor would it be my last, but at that point, I thought that all press were lower than scum. Even though, because of the freedom of speech, they had the right to tell the public, did they really have the right to ask us? In my communication classes in College, I became obsessed with the way the press held up celebrities as ideal women and the public seemed to just follow. However, I questioned why the public tolerated this, not why the media published it. It took me until my senior year practicum to realize the ethical dimensions present in the production of every magazine, newspaper and broadcast. In the reading, when an author suggested that the press should be governed by an ethical review board I was horrified. This author criticized the press for publishing information about a potential child molester and never once thought of the children he might have molested. The First Amendment allows for ambivalence toward the press: the public wants the right to know but not the push to tell. As Editor-in-Chief of The Muhlenberg Weekly, I experienced this feeling, and, as a journalist, I weighed what its costs to tell a story. Eventually, though the public quotes the First Amendment Right to push for information, they feel sympathy toward people they view as victims of the press.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















