






Rosalind Newsholme 07 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2007Rosalind Newsholme 07 






Rosalind Newsholme 07













Rosalind Newsholme 07











Karla Auermuller 07Jacqueline Quici 07Melanie Heazel 07Kimberly Nguyen 07Megan Blessing 07Rachel Frint 07Rachael Danahy 07Casey Sanders 07Pamela Phelps 07Courtney Roosa 07Jason Scherr 07Julie Eisen 07Tanya Carpenter 07Courtney Williams 07Rosalind Newsholme 07Janette Tucker 07Alexandra Reekie 07











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2007Rosalind Newsholme 07 












‌
 Rosalind Newsholme Communicated Messages of the China National Tourism Administration: China Modern or China 'the Other'?
Economic and social relations between the United States and China are growing rapidly. In response to this, institutions within both nations create media content aimed to contribute to the expansion of these relations. The China National Tourism Administration (CNTA) is controlled and funded by the Chinese government. By implementing several types of media, the Administration attempts to convince American tourists to visit China. The CNTA is linked to the Chinese Tourism Association (CTA), which distributes its media content through websites and a printed publication, China Tourism. It was my goal to analyze media messages created by the CNTA through its web pages and China Tourism. I predicted that the CNTA would encourage Western tourist audiences to view China as a nation that is dramatically different from the West and the United States, particularly. Consequently, I thought China would be framed as a place worth visiting instead of other countries. I expected that China would be framed as Edward Said's 'the Other,' and depicted as a place that is foreign, traditional and implicitly inferior. But why might China and the CNTA 'Other' its own nation? By encouraging larger numbers of American tourists to visit China, economic and social relations could expand. I found that the media messages delivered by the CNTA, through the CTA, not only 'Other' China to make the country attractive to Western audiences, but also 'Westernize' China. This is done in an attempt to make it seem traditional and modern simultaneously. Thus, contradictory messages are available for consumption by American audiences: China the foreign, traditional nation that has resisted modern life and China the modern nation that is no longer traditional and instead, is capable of advancing economic and social relations with the United States.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















