






Pamela Phelps 07 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2007Pamela Phelps 07 






Pamela Phelps 07













Pamela Phelps 07











Karla Auermuller 07Jacqueline Quici 07Melanie Heazel 07Kimberly Nguyen 07Megan Blessing 07Rachel Frint 07Rachael Danahy 07Casey Sanders 07Pamela Phelps 07Courtney Roosa 07Jason Scherr 07Julie Eisen 07Tanya Carpenter 07Courtney Williams 07Rosalind Newsholme 07Janette Tucker 07Alexandra Reekie 07











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2007Pamela Phelps 07 












‌
 Pamela Phelps When Darkness Falls: A Radio Production
From the 1920s through to the 1950s, radio dramas were a main source of entertainment for many Americans. The genre relied on vivid descriptions, unique stories and talented editing in order to hook listeners and spark their imaginations. When executed right, the productions had the power to make an audience laugh, cry or fear, which is an astounding feat. This piece is a tribute to these bygone greats. My inspiration came from listening to old episodes of The Shadow, which I first heard in middle school. The stories were always entertaining, sometimes for their hokiness but mostly for their ability to make you see the story in your mind. As Susan Douglas states in Listening In, the dramas introduced a new orality into American culture, a pure listening experience, which gave the audience an incredibly important role. Unlike TV, where audiences are passive - shown what to see and basically how to feel - radio is an active experience. Listeners are required to participate and use their imagination to see the story play out; the result is both an individual and communal experience, with the same stories settling in each mind differently. For this project, my creative skills were put to the test: writing, casting, editing and even voicing a character. The project was a fun and insightful adventure that showed me that my passion for radio is stronger than any other. By creating this story, I hope to affect audiences in some small way in order to show that this genre is still an effective art form that should not be left in the dark.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















