






Nicole Rhoads 08 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2008Nicole Rhoads 08 






Nicole Rhoads 08













Nicole Rhoads 08











Kathryn Cassidy 08Tricia Conti 08Ashley Farkas 08Heather Fox 08Lisa Harrison 08Ashleigh Howland 08Laurie Kamens 08Janis Mitchell 08Brittany Nelson 08Nicole Rhoads 08Brianne Schurott 08Harry Uniman 08











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMedia & CommunicationHonorsHonors 2008Nicole Rhoads 08 












‌
Nicole Rhoads
The Emergence of Blogs in the Early 21st Century:
A Fix for the Failing Watchdog Role?
The press plays several vital roles in any democracy. These roles include agenda setter, public informer, mobilizer of citizens, and creator of a marketplace of ideas. In American democracy, the most idealized role of the press is its watchdog function over government. The watchdog press ensures the accountability of government as an institution, as well as governmental officials. Unfortunately, the press is not living up to the watchdog ideal. The investigative reporting that is often required of watchdog journalists is expensive and time-consuming. Therefore, editors tend to constrain their reporters to familiar "cookie cutter" narratives. Further complicating the current situation are Americans' tastes for the sensational. What has resulted is a mainstream media establishment that is focused on earning profits for its stockholders, rather than fulfilling its vital watchdog role in America's democracy. Fortunately, in this technology-laden twenty-first century, there is a new hope for restoring the watchdog role: the blogosphere. More and more, bloggers are acting as a "watcher of the watchdog," and scrutinizing the mainstream media. In so doing, they are ensuring that traditional reporters do their job, and properly cover governmental activity. In addition, many bloggers are conducting their own original reporting, which is often more detailed and well-researched than traditional news. This thesis examines the following proposition: considering mainstream media's failure to fully and accurately cover governmental activities, are blogs helping to restore the watchdog role, either by performing watchdog-type activities themselves, or by holding the mainstream media accountable?



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















