






2014: "Chips for Charity" benefits abused & homeless youth  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











"Chips for Charity" benefits abused & homeless youth 


Delta Zeta and Alpha Tau Omega raise nearly $5000 to assist local non-profit.


	 Thursday, May 8, 2014  03:37 PM

(pictured: Delta Zeta and Alpha Tau Omega members with Valley Youth House staff Shane Burroughs, street outreach coordinator, Jeffrey C. McCausland, development officer and Sean Searfass, extern counselor)
On a Friday night in March, members of Delta Zeta and Alpha Tau Omega came together to host a special event. The casino-themed “Chips for Charity” didn’t include gambling or games of chance, but was instead filled with music and collection of monetary donations, toiletries, clothing and books designed to benefit Valley Youth House.
Valley Youth House is an organization dedicated to providing prevention and intervention services, counseling, life skills and behavioral health services to abused, neglected and homeless youth and their families. "Chips for Charity" was designed to specifically benefit the organization’s street outreach program, The Synergy Project.
The idea came this past winter when the groups convened to discuss possible philanthropic causes. The bitter cold weather encouraged the students to reflect on the difficulties the temperature posed to those without proper clothing and shelter. And when the Greek members realized that many on campus may be unfamiliar with Valley Youth House’s mission, many agreed the cause was a perfect choice.
Danielle Levin '16 and Dylan Shepcaro '15, philanthropy chairs from Delta Zeta and Alpha Tau Omega, helped rally their respective organizations, the campus community and family and friends to ensure the event’s success, resulting in nearly $5000 in monetary donations and a large supply of in-kind contributions to help keep Lehigh Valley youth safer.
“We knew that our efforts would made a huge impact,” says Levin. “We are so thrilled to have had the opportunity to work with the Valley Youth House, and we feel privileged to have partnered with such a worthy cause.”
On May 8, members of both Greek organizations presented a check from the event proceeds as well as in-kind donations. The funds and supplies will be used to help youth and teens in at-risk situations.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















