






Biochemistry | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiochemistry 






Biochemistry
Explore biochemistry - the study of organisms, cells and cellular components at the chemical and molecular level - with Muhlenberg's renowned natural sciences faculty.













Biochemistry











Biochemistry OutcomesMission and GoalsMajor and CoursesAffiliated FacultyInformation for Students











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiochemistry 











The Biochemistry Program at Muhlenberg College offers a curriculum that integrates classroom and laboratory-based learning in the interdisciplinary study of living systems at the molecular level. Students explore the interface of chemistry and biology, negotiating distinct yet complementary modes of inquiry.

Our program asks students to confront the implicit responsibilities as well as the societal and ethical implications of research, critically engage with scientific information and develop the reasoning skills necessary to navigate rapidly changing landscapes of knowledge. We value student-faculty collaborative research and encourage the presentation and publication of student work.
In these ways and through supporting students pursuing an additional major/minor(s), studying abroad and engaging in the community, we encourage our students to fully realize the goals of a liberal arts education. Our students can graduate with ACS certification and are poised for a variety of careers, graduate research or professional study.















Research



Independent research is a critical part of the undergraduate educational experience. Faculty advisors work with you to explore opportunities on and off campus.




Explore Research Opportunites



















Facilities & Equipment



Muhlenberg's biochemistry program provides access to the latest equipment and resources, and our academic buildings house facilities dedicated to learning, research and experimentation.




Explore facilities, equipment and resources



















Outcomes



Biochemistry alumni are prepared for admittance to the nation's top graduate programs and employment as researchers and in careers as diverse as data management and analytics.




Explore biochemistry outcomes










 


 










Curriculum
Biochemistry Core Courses
The biochemistry program offers a number of courses throughout the natural sciences.







Biochemistry (BIO 220)



Following introductory coursework, students consider structure & function, information flow and metabolic pathways within cells.




Learn more
















Experimental Biochemistry



Students learn how science is done, dissecting scientific literature, engaging in hands-on techniques, designing and conducting experiments. 




Learn more
















Advanced Biochemistry



Students integrate and communicate an understanding of cells and molecules to predict function within the context of human health and disease.




Learn more
































Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















