






2014: Anthropologist Denise Brennan to Speak on Human Trafficking | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Anthropologist Denise Brennan to Speak on Human Trafficking


Georgetown prof's talk is the final event in the Center for Ethics series "Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics."


	 Thursday, April 24, 2014  09:25 AM

The Muhlenberg College Center for Ethics welcomes Denise Brennan for her talk, “Beyond Urban Myths and Sex Panics: Research with Survivors of Trafficking into Forced Labor,” on Tuesday, April 29 at 7:30 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. This event is free and open to the public and is the final event in the year-long series Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics. 
Brennan, associate professor of anthropology at Georgetown University, focuses on the sex industry in the Dominican Republic, as well as the connections between large structural forces in the globalized economy and their effects on individuals in a sex-tourist destination.
As an anthropologist, she has done field research with trafficked persons throughout the United States and with sex workers in the Dominican Republic. Her current research is on the effects of detention and deportation of undocumented immigrants on their families and communities.
Her books include Life Interrupted: Trafficking into Forced Labor in the United States, Rethinking Traffic (co-written by Pardis Mahdavi), and What’s Love Got to Do with It? Transnational Desires and Sex Tourism in the Dominican Republic. She has also published several articles in books and journals, including “Trafficking, Scandal, and Abuse of Migrant Workers: Measuring Exploitation in Argentina and the United States,” which appeared in The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences (2014) and “Treading Water: Life after Trafficking into Forced Labor in the United States,” which appeared in Human Trafficking Reconsidered: Migration and Forced Labor (2014).
Sex, Ethics, and Pleasure Politics is a series of special events and thematic lectures that aims to develop a comprehensive sexual ethics for the campus community. For more information, visit http://www.muhlenberg.edu/main/aboutus/cfe/current_programs/index.html.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















