






2014: Brandon Hamilton '16 Looks Forward as Student Body President | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 






2014













2014











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2014 











Brandon Hamilton '16 Looks Forward as Student Body President


Meet Brandon Hamilton '16, Muhlenberg College's new student body president. He's drawing on skills learned both in and out of the classroom to shape his actions in student government.


By:

 

  Collin Smith '14  


	 Tuesday, March 11, 2014  04:26 PM

The sophomore drew on his past experiences as an Eagle Scout, his service as student liaison for Muhlenberg College's Board of Associates and his membership in Sigma Phi Epsilon during the campaign for Muhlenberg's Student Government Association. Despite a great deal of preparation and several discussions with outgoing president Rebecca Romano '14, the run-up to the election proved to be a daunting task.
“Time management during that campaign was one of my most difficult challenges,” says Hamilton as he reflects upon a hectic week that was already more than filled with coursework and fraternity responsibilities.
But now that the election is behind him, Hamilton has time to build upon the accomplishments of the student leaders who went before him and focuses on his own term as president. One of current goals includes plans to bring prominent politicians or other public speakers to campus for conversations with students.
Hamilton believes that the learning opportunity would also build upon campus pride.
“Such an event could help students feel proud to be a part of Muhlenberg College,” says Hamilton.
He has talked about streamlining the process for student clubs and organizations to receive student government funding. He hopes that by making the process for student clubs to request funds easier, new groups would be more likely to form and become established on campus.
In terms of lasting physical changes on campus, Hamilton plans to look into the feasibility of a charging station for smartphones and laptops in the Light Lounge of Seegers Union. He also thinks that providing even more healthy food options in the GQ is worth exploring.
When asked why he decided to run for student body president, Hamilton looked to his father as a mentor and as an aspirational leadership figure.
"My dad owns his own construction company, and I see his dedication to his job and the hours he puts into it,” says Hamilton. He credits his father with learning how to successfully manage projects and how to build out and maintain a professional network.
Brandon Hamilton is currently undeclared with plans to pursue a major in business or finance.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















