






2015: Muhlenberg Field Hockey Earns ECAC Bid | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg Field Hockey Earns ECAC Bid


For the second straight year, field hockey was rewarded for its season with a bid to the Eastern College Athletic Conference Mid-Atlantic Tournament. Muhlenberg hosts the first-round game Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m.


By:



  Muhlenberg College Sports Information  



	 Tuesday, November 10, 2015  08:44 AM


The Mules (11-6) are the second seed in the eight-team tournament and will host seventh-seeded Alvernia (12-7) in a first-round game on Wednesday at 7:30.
Juniata is the top seed, with FDU-Florham (No. 3), defending champion Stevenson (No. 4), Kean (No. 5), Lebanon Valley (No. 6) and William Paterson (No. 8) also earning bids. The semifinals are scheduled for Saturday, with the final to be played the following day.
Muhlenberg tied for third in the Centennial Conference in the regular season and was the fourth seed for the CC playoffs. In the first round, the Mules lost 1-0 in overtime to Dickinson, which went on to push top seed and fourth-ranked Franklin & Marshall in the semifinals before falling 1-0 on a goal with 4:11 left.
Alvernia went 3-4 in the Commonwealth Conference, missing out on a playoff berth by one game. The Crusaders closed out their regular season with wins against two teams that are in the NCAA Tournament, Freedom Conference champion Misericordia and Colonial States Athletic Conference champion Cabrini.
The teams have three common opponents with similar scores: Both lost to Franklin & Marshall (Alvernia 7-2 and Muhlenberg 4-0) and defeated Stockton (Alvernia 3-2 and Muhlenberg 2-1). The Crusaders posted a 2-1 win against King's, a team to which the Mules lost 1-0 in overtime.
The ECAC playoff game shapes up as an interesting matchup between the Muhlenberg defense and Alvernia's top scorer. The Mules rank 28th in Division III with a 1.24 goals-against average and have allowed more than one goal only three times in their last 15 games. Crusader junior forward Margaret Wentzel is fifth in Division III with 27 goals and has scored in every game but two this season.
Muhlenberg is led in scoring by junior Emily Boyle with nine goals. The Mules' biggest win of the season was a 1-0 shutout of Montclair State, at the time ranked seventh and now ranked ninth in Division III.
The postseason berth is the fourth for the Mules, who played in the NCAA Tournament in 1989 and the ECAC Tournament in 1998 and 2014.
This article originally appeared on 11/09/15 on MuhlenbergSports.com.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















