






2015: Bruckner Takes on New Role at Muhlenberg | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Bruckner Takes on New Role at Muhlenberg


Mike Bruckner has been named Vice President for External Affairs and Community Relations at Muhlenberg College. Bruckner has been the Vice President for Public Relations at the College for the past 19 years. 


	 Wednesday, September 23, 2015  08:14 AM

In his new position, Bruckner will be involved with the College's major new mentoring and career networking initiatives, strengthening the Muhlenberg community globally, as well as spearheading a program for elite high school students.
“We open doors for one another on campus; we can and we will do even more to open doors for one another globally. This new position will focus on such opportunities and collaborate with other members of senior staff to design and execute programs that can bring our network together even more effectively for the benefit of our entire community,” Muhlenberg President John I. Williams, Jr. said in a message to the campus community. “In addition, this position will seek to expand the College's network by creating opportunities to collaborate with external entities, including the City of Allentown, other communities within the Lehigh Valley, and local and regional companies and nonprofits, as well as opportunities for productive partnerships in nearby major cities.”
Williams added that Bruckner is the ideal person for this new position, as Bruckner is a “connector of people” and has a “deep commitment” to the College and its students, faculty, staff, alumni, parents and friends.
Prior to Muhlenberg, Bruckner spent 12 years in athletic administration at the University of New Hampshire and five years with Gehrung Associates, a higher education media relations firm.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















