






2015: Award-winning poet Stephen Kuusisto to read at Muhlenberg | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Award-winning poet Stephen Kuusisto to read at Muhlenberg


Poet Stephen Kuusisto will give a public reading of his work on Monday, September 28, at 7:00 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.


	 Monday, September 14, 2015  01:31 PM

The event, part of the College's fall 2015 Living Writers series, is free and open to the public.
Kuusisto, who has been blind since birth, is the author of “Eavesdropping: A Memoir of Blindness and Listening" and the acclaimed memoir "Planet of the Blind," a New York Times “Notable Book of the Year”. He has also published "Only Bread, Only Light", a collection of poems from Copper Canyon Press. Recognized by the New York Times as “a powerful writer with a musical ear for language and a gift for emotional candor,” Kuusisto has made numerous appearances on programs including, The Oprah Winfrey Show, Dateline NBC, National Public Radio and the BBC.
A graduate of the “Writer’s Workshop” at the University of Iowa, and a Fulbright Scholar, Kuusisto holds the position of director of the Renée Crown University Honors Program at Syracuse University. He speaks widely on diversity, disability, education, and public policy. His essays and poems have appeared in numerous anthologies and literary magazines including Harper’s, The New York Times Magazine; Poetry; and Partisan Review. He is currently working on a collection of prose poems for Copper Canyon Press entitled "Mornings With Borges" as well as a collection of political poems about disability.
Living Writers, established in 1994, is a course offered once every three years that brings established and emerging writers to Muhlenberg College. Students enrolled in the course read the authors' recent works, and then interact with them directly when they visit campus for a day. The writers come to class, have lunch with students and then give a public reading of their work in the evening.
Future readings will be given by Maggie Shipstead (Monday, October 19), Aracelis Girmay (Monday, November 2), Neil Gaiman (Monday, November 16) and Phil Klay (Monday, November 30). All readings, except for Gaiman, are free and will be held in Miller Hall, Moyer Forum, at 7:00 p.m.
Public tickets for the Gaiman reading go on sale on Sept. 21 (limit 4 tickets at $15/ticket, online or in person at the box office); student tickets went on sale on Sept. 7, at the box office only (limit 1 ticket with ID at $8).
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, sciences, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















