






2015: Muhlenberg Students Continue Tradition of Independent Undergraduate Research | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg Students Continue Tradition of Independent Undergraduate Research


This summer, more than 50 Muhlenberg students are conducting independent faculty-mentored research in the arts, humanities and sciences.


	 Tuesday, July 14, 2015  03:55 PM

Projects embody a diverse expanse of academic disciplines, including: music theory and history; the olfactory preferences and learning behavior of bumblebees; bird and amphibian stress ecology; learning and memory; prevalence of human pathogens in Lehigh Valley tick populations; and the impact of 1917 on American and American Jewish history.
Julia Burns '16 works with Dr. Amy Hark, associate professor of biology and the co-director of Muhlenberg's biochemistry program (pictured) and Dr. Elizabeth McCain, professor and department chair of biology, to study the role of certain genes on the development of tricomes, small hair-like appendages of plants.
Undergraduate research is a realized opportunity for Muhlenberg College students. These researchers have access to some of the top faculty in their field, and their findings often result in collaborative professional publications with their faculty mentors.
Student researchers are granted a stipend and no-cost housing on campus throughout the duration of their projects. The research is made possible through grants from the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, Muhlenberg's Neuroscience Collaborative Research Program, the Faculty-Student Collaborative Research Grant from the Provost's Office, academic departments and scholarships funded by generous Muhlenberg alumni and supporters.
As part of the scholarly nature of research, students present their methods and findings in a series of weekly summer seminars, culminating in an annual poster session to the campus community each fall.
To learn more about student research and funding opportunities, visit Student Research and Scholarship.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















