






2015: Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre embarks on 35th theatrical season  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre embarks on 35th theatrical season 


Summer lineup includes 'Avenue Q,' June 10-28, 
Muhlenberg premiere of 'Hello, Dolly!,' July 8-26, 
'Grimm!' for young audiences, June 17- July 25 



	 Thursday, May 7, 2015  04:16 PM

The Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre festival at Muhlenberg College announces the lineup for its 2015 summer season - the 35th in the festival's history. The season will feature the raunchy but heartwarming musical "Avenue Q," the classic matchmaker musical "Hello, Dolly!," and "Grimm!" a new musical for young audiences, based on the stories of the Brothers Grimm.
Opening the summer season, "Avenue Q," June 10-28, winner of the Tony Award "triple crown" (Best Musical, Best Score, and Best Book), is a hilariously adult take on classic children's characters.
The 10-time Tony Award winner "Hello, Dolly!" runs July 8-26. Jerry Herman's classic musical takes a whirlwind tour of New York at the turn of the 20th century, following the adventures of America's most beloved matchmaker, Dolly Levi.
The world premiere family musical "Grimm!" June 17 - July 25, is a playful, puppet-filled interpretation of the fairy tales of the Brothers Grimm, created by the neo-vaudeville theater group Doppelskope. "Grimm!" is recommended for ages 4 and up. New this year, MSMT will offer free 45-minute workshops for children, following every performance of "Grimm!" Participants can register in advance through the box office.
Tickets and information are available at muhlenberg.edu/SMT and 484-664-3333.
"Avenue Q" is a puppet-filled musical that follows a group of 20-somethings as they struggle to find their purpose in big-city life. Filled with gut-busting humor and an ingeniously catchy score, "Avenue Q" is a one-of-a-kind theatre experience. MSMT veterans Bill Mutimer and Ed Bara serve as director and musical director. Mutimer last directed "Schoolhouse Rock" for MSMT, and Bara recently starred in the Muhlenberg Mainstage production of Kurt Weill's "Street Scene" and as King Arthur in last summer's MSMT production of "Spamalot." "Avenue Q" features full-frontal puppet nudity, songs about porn, and other risqué puppet hijinx, and is intended for mature audiences.
A ten-time Tony Award winner, "Hello, Dolly!" tells the story of self-professed "meddler" Dolly Levi, on a quest to make a match of her own, to Horace Vandergelder, the richest man in Yonkers. Audiences will leave the theatre humming the show's irresistible score - and charmed by the ebullient personality of one of musical theater's most fabulous characters. MSMT founding artistic director Charles Richter will direct the production. Michael Schnack serves as musical director, and Karen Dearborn choreographs.
Doppelskope's new family musical "Grimm!" offers classic fairy tales like Rumpelstiltskin told as they've never been told before, and invites young audiences to join the Grimm Brothers in their quest to rescue their precious stories and make things right. In a world where the line between story and reality is as thin as a golden thread, the Grimms are on a mission to protect all stories from unraveling. Doppelskope's interactive theatrical adventure combines puppetry, music and magic, and invites the audience to discover their own magical stories. Following each performance, audiences will have the opportunity to meet and interact with the performers and puppets.
A free 45-minute workshop follows each performance of "Grimm!" Participants will explore their own family stories in a series of energetic hands-on activities designed to get kids up on their feet, thinking, playing and expressing themselves. Participation is limited, and advance registration through the box office is recommended.
Sensory-friendly performances of "Grimm!" will be presented on Tuesday, June 30, at 6:30 p.m. and Saturday, July 18 at 1 p.m. The July 18 performance will be followed by an interactive workshop. Sensory-friendly performances are designed for children with autism and other sensory challenges. At these performances, sound levels are reduced, and startling sounds are avoided; lights remain on at a low level during performance, and strobes and other flashy lights are omitted; patrons are free to talk or leave their seats during the show; and attendance is limited. Social stories will be available in advance from the MSMT website, and the theater staff and cast will receive special training in meeting the needs of patrons with autism and sensory issues.
Audio Description and Open Captioning will be available at the Sunday, July 26 performance of "Hello, Dolly!" Call 484-664-3087 for tickets in the accessible section of this performance.
"Avenue Q" runs June 10-28; "Hello, Dolly!" runs July 8-26. Performances are Wednesday through Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m.
Ticket prices for both "Avenue Q" and "Hello, Dolly!" are as follows. For the first four performances: $33 regular admission; seniors, $29; students and children, $18. For the remaining 11 performances: $39 regular admission; seniors, $36; students and children, $20.
"Grimm!" runs June 17 through July 25. Performances are Wednesday through Friday at 10 a.m. and 1 p.m, and Saturday at 10 a.m. only. All tickets to "Gruff!" are $10 for June performances and $12 for July performances.
Subscriptions to "Avenue Q" and "Hello, Dolly!" are available for $52 for the first four shows, or $62 for the remaining 11 shows. Subscriptions for students and children are $32 for any shows throughout the runs. Group discounts are available for groups of 15 or more. Sundays are Family Matinee Day; mainstage tickets for children ages 5-18 are just $10 when purchased with a full-price or senior ticket. (Limit two discounted tickets per full-price ticket.)
Tickets and information are available at www.muhlenberg.edu/SMT or 484-664-3333.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















