






2015: Muhlenberg student Ellison Heil '16 provides update from Nepal | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Muhlenberg student Ellison Heil '16 provides update from Nepal


'Berg student describes situation following tragic earthquake


	 Sunday, April 26, 2015  09:07 PM

‌Ellison Heil is a junior at Muhlenberg College. He is currently studying abroad in Nepal, a country recovering from a severe earthquake. He was able to contact friends, family and Muhlenberg College administration with an update on the condition of his surroundings. Muhlenberg College has confirmed that all students studying in the region have been contacted and are safe.
"Namaste Friends and Family,
Many of you may have caught word that Nepal was rocked by an earthquake that registered at 7.9 on the seismic scale. The epicenter was located to the Northwest of Nepal's capital Kathmandu and Southwest of the major trekking lakeside city of Pokhara. Kathmandu's ancient infrastructure in areas such as Thamel (Tourist Town) and Patan (The City of Fine Arts) saw the worst of the damage with buildings caving in, leading to a death tally that I try not to follow. Four of Nepal's Seven UNESCO world heritage sites have experienced major destruction. The phone lines are clogged, and I will be unable to make any phone calls for a while.
I am currently safe in a small village to the Northwest of Kathmandu called Ghandruk. I was outside on the side of a mountain trail when the quake hit and saw the earthen homes, terraced along the mountain-side, shake through a cloud of scattering birds and wildlife. I am currently living with a local family that makes their living off of subsistence agriculture and thus will have plenty of rations for the upcoming food scarcity. I will be staying put for a while, as the conditions of the roads into Kathmandu are being assessed. Kathmandu resides in a valley with mountains on all four sides with only a few roads into the city, which all of the city's supplies are sourced through. There is potential that landslides may have washed out the roads, which not only limits my access to the city, but more importantly, also limits the flow of food that is commonly grown outside of the valley in the flatlands of the Therai to the south of the country. The upcoming days may see major water, food and electricity shortages in the city, along with the potential of aftershocks that will riddle the already shaken foundations of the city.
In the world of the mountains, the trail up to Annapurna Base Camp brought a crack into the guest house at the village of Himalaya and an avalanche at the Base Camp. Today sadly marks 1 year and 8 days from last season's avalanche incident on Mount Everest (Mt. Sagarmartha) that swept away so many Sherpas into the Khumbu Icefall. Yesterday's earthquake triggered another avalanche on Everest that swept out Camp I and Basecamp leaving 17 dead on the mountain. The Himalayas are the world's youngest mountain range; they are still growing. I witnessed firsthand the breathing and exhaling of these masses which are still very much alive.
Ellison (Abhaya)"












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















