






2015: Karen Dearborn, professor of dance, and Morgan Reilly '15 honored by Allentown Arts Commission | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Karen Dearborn, professor of dance, and Morgan Reilly '15 honored by Allentown Arts Commission


The Arts Ovation Awards honor arts organizations and individuals whose achievements have had a significant and positive impact on the citizens of Allentown and the quality of life in the Allentown cultural community.


	 Monday, April 20, 2015  04:32 PM

Karen Dearborn, professor of dance, and Morgan Reilly '15 will be recognized at the Allentown Arts Commission's Arts Ovation Awards 27th annual ceremony on May 14 at 5:30 p.m. at the Renaissance Hotel at the PPL Center. 
Dearborn is the founder and director of dance for Muhlenberg College. She has choreographed more than 80 works in concert dance, theatre and musical theatre, including National Tours of the Tony Award-winning National Theatre of the Deaf and Equity theatre companies. As a dancer, she performed professionally for 12 years in concert dance and musical theatre productions. Her research interests include performance studies, disability studies, and dance pedagogy, and her writing has been published in the Journal of Dance Education and the book Performing Magic on the Western Stage. She has presented papers at numerous conferences including National Dance Educators Organization (NDEO), Congress on Research in Dance and the National Dance Association. Currently she is Treasurer of the American College Dance Festival Association (ACDFA) a member of CORPS de Ballet International, NDEO, Society of Dance History Scholars and AEA. She has received the Christian R. and Mary F. Lindback Foundation Award for Distinguished Teaching and the Ruth and Joe Spira Award for Excellence in Teaching.
Reilly has performed locally and regionally at venues as varied as Muhlenberg College, Civic Theatre of Allentown, Pennsylvania Playhouse, Cedar Crest College, Miller Symphony Hall, New York University, Bucks County Playhouse, The 37th Street Theatre (NYC) and Parkland High School. She was most recently seen as Inga in "Young Frankenstein" at Civic, where she has also appeared in “Urinetown,” “Spring Awakening,” and “Gypsy.” A record setting eight-time Freddy Award nominee, she received the award for Outstanding Featured Performance by an Actress in 2009 and the Most Valuable Player Award in 2011. This past year she received the ABE Award for Outstanding Performance by an Actress (Musical, Community Theatre) for her performance in “Urinetown.” An avid singer/songwriter, she has an active following on YouTube and has performed as a solo artist at the State Theatre in Easton, Muhlenberg College, New York University, Don’t Tell Mama’s (NYC). She served as a guest vocalist for The Piano Men at Miller Symphony Hall.
The Allentown Arts Commission serves the community as an advocate and resource to nurture, promote and sustain the arts in Allentown. The commission’s signature annual event, The Arts Ovation Awards, honors arts organizations or individuals whose achievements have had a significant and positive impact on the citizens of Allentown and the quality of life in the Allentown cultural community. Tickets for this year's ceremony are available at www.civictheatre.com/artsovation.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















