






2015: Students showcase new venture ideas in 6th annual Innovation Challenge | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Students showcase new venture ideas in 6th annual Innovation Challenge


Participants from all majors compete for seed money


	 Tuesday, April 14, 2015  01:40 PM

The sixth annual Muhlenberg College Innovation Challenge, a co-curricular forum for all Muhlenberg students to showcase new venture ideas, will be held on April 16 from 4:30-7:30 p.m. in Seegers Union Room 113. The challenge will include a poster session, group presentations and an award ceremony.
All current Muhlenberg students – not just business majors – were invited to develop and submit a comprehensive plan for an original, innovative idea that solves a current social or market problem or fills a gap in the marketplace. Any significant social issue or market opportunity can be addressed in this competition. Teams will compete for a chance to win $2,000 "seed money" to help get their ideas off the ground. 
Judges for the contest include:
Anthony A. DuranteProgram ManagerBridgeworks Enterprise Center Matt Sommerfield,President of MTS Ventures John Dubbs,President of Recignition, LLC
Launched in the early 1990s, the entrepreneurial studies program at Muhlenberg was one of the first entrepreneurship programs to be established at a liberal arts college. Today, the program maintains its distinction through its unique combination of academics and practicing entrepreneurs. The program also incorporates local entrepreneurs in the surrounding community, and cultivates opportunities for students to learn from those in the midst of building businesses. These relationships offer an immediate context in which students can apply theory, and gain exposure to the local business community in ways that can further their development beyond the walls of Muhlenberg.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















