






2015: Joe Fab, Emmy-nominated producer, writer and director of the documentary "Paper Clips" speaks on Holocaust Memorial Day | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Joe Fab, Emmy-nominated producer, writer and director of the documentary "Paper Clips" speaks on Holocaust Memorial Day


Film screening and follow-up talk sponsored by Muhlenberg College Hillel, Muhlenberg Activities Council, the Chaplain's office and the Institute for Jewish Christian Understanding


	 Tuesday, April 7, 2015  01:24 PM

Joe Fab, the award-winning and Emmy-nominated American producer, writer and director of the 2004 documentary “Paper Clips,” will speak at Muhlenberg College on April 16, 2015, in honor of Yom HaShoah (Holocaust Memorial Day). Fab’s widely acclaimed work “Paper Clips” will be screened on April 16, 2016 at 7:30 p.m. in the Seegers Union Event Space. Following the 84-minute screening, Fab will discuss the production of the documentary and take questions to start a discussion. This event, sponsored by Muhlenberg College’s Hillel, Muhlenberg Activities Council, the Chaplain's office and the Institute for Jewish Christian Understanding, is free and open to the public.
“Paper Clips” was named one of the top five documentaries of 2004 by the National Board of Review and received the Jewish Image Award in recognition of its promotion of cross-cultural communication. Fab is particularly proud to have co-written the lyrics sung by bluegrass artist Alison Krauss on the film’s soundtrack.
Fab's career brought him the privilege of working with Presidents Clinton, Carter and Bush (both George H. W. and George W), as well as an array of other political figures, from Sam Nunn to Orrin Hatch. He produced the premiere presentation of “Amazing Peace,” a poem by Dr. Maya Angelou, performed by the author herself. He has written for such diverse actors as Gregory Peck, Mary Steenburgen, Shirley Jones, Robert Prosky and Alan Alda, and personalities like Mary Matalin, James Carville, Willard Scott and Al Roker – to name but a few.
Fab’s honors include the prestigious Christopher Award, given for achievements in media that “affirm the highest values of the human spirit.” Also, in 2006, Billy Campbell, president of Discovery Networks U.S., presented him the Discovery and Imagination Award – an honor whose two previous recipients were Christopher Reeve and Dr. Jane Goodall. 
Muhlenberg College Hillel serves the most active Jewish campus population in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley. Over 33% of the 2200 member student body at Muhlenberg College is Jewish. Over two-thirds of the Jewish students on campus are active in Hillel, making it the largest student organization of any kind on campus.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















