






2015: Kylee Sunderlin, staff attorney at National Advocates for Pregnant Women, to participate in Social Research Social Justice Conference | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Kylee Sunderlin, staff attorney at National Advocates for Pregnant Women, to participate in Social Research Social Justice Conference


Sunderlin's talk, "The Hidden Consequences of the War on Drugs: Harming Families and Communities," will be held on April 9, 2015 at Muhlenberg College in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall at 7:00 p.m.  


	 Tuesday, April 7, 2015  01:57 PM

This lecture, the plenary event for the College's 12th annual Social Research Social Justice Conference, is free and open to the public.
In her talk, Sunderlin will address some of the more overlooked consequences of drug war policies and propaganda, paying specific attention to the ways in which women, children and families are affected.
National Advocates for Pregnant Women is a reproductive justice organization that protects the rights, health and dignity of those who are pregnant and parenting by organizing with state and national coalitions, providing pro bono legal assistance, supporting defense attorneys in criminal and civil child welfare cases, and bringing legal and medical expertise to media and professionals who work with pregnant women.
Sunderlin has been a guest lecturer at Columbia, Harvard, Brooklyn, Yale and Michigan Law Schools, as well as a speaker at numerous national conferences on drug policy and child welfare. Previously, she worked at Lambda Legal and the University of Michigan's Program in Sexual Rights and Reproductive Justice. Sunderlin received her B.A. and J.D. from the University of Michigan.
Sunderlin’s lecture is presented by the 2015 Social Research Social Justice Conference, an undergraduate conference with the goal to foster a forum outside of the classroom to discuss issues of social justice in a democratic society.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.
 
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















