






2015: James Peck named associate dean for diversity initiatives | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











James Peck named associate dean for diversity initiatives


New appointment is one among many recommendations of the College's Diversity Strategic Planning Committee 



	 Thursday, April 2, 2015  01:47 PM

Muhlenberg College announces that James Peck, professor of theatre arts and affiliate faculty in the Africana studies program, will serve as the College’s first dean for diversity initiatives.
This appointment is one among many important recommendations of the Diversity Strategic Planning Committee. The associate dean for diversity studies will be responsible for recruiting and retaining a diverse faculty, strengthening the depth and complexity of teaching and learning about diversity, working collaboratively with the office of multicultural life and engaging with national diversity programs such as the Consortium for Faculty Diversity and Intergroup Dialog.
Peck chaired the department of theatre and dance from 2006-2013. As chair, he initiated and oversaw a substantial diversification of the theatre curriculum. He served as co-chair of the Multicultural Center Advisory Board from 2011-2014 and is a co-founder of its Meeting Points series. With Dr. Kim Gallon, formerly of the history department, he created a MILA (Muhlenberg Integrated Learning Abroad) course about the history and performance culture of the West African nation of Ghana, the College’s first MILA to that continent. He served on Curriculum Committee from 2009-2012, where he contributed to the development of the College’s new HDGE (Human Diversity and Global Engagement) requirement. He is currently serving as faculty director of the Mellon Foundation grant, "Achieving Muhlenberg’s Civic and Global Mission."
 Peck received the Lindback Teaching Award in 2013, the Williams Award in 2005 and the First Year Advising Award in 2004.
 He holds an M.F.A. in theatre (directing) from the University of California at San Diego and a Ph. D. in performance studies from New York University.
 Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.  Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















