






2015: Wescoe School's healthcare program ranked #1 by Healthcare Administration Degree Programs | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Wescoe School's healthcare program ranked #1 by Healthcare Administration Degree Programs


Program delivers in-depth application to the specific challenges of the health services industry


	 Tuesday, March 24, 2015  01:14 PM

The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College's bachelor's degree in business administration with a concentration in healthcare management has been ranked the number one program of its kind by Healthcare Administration Degree Programs. 
Gregg Scully, assistant dean of the Wescoe School and coordinator of the healthcare program, said, "We've been quietly proud of our healthcare management program since its inception nine years ago, and our confidence that we're delivering on our promise to provide a unique and high quality learning experience has been consistently affirmed by feedback from our students and their employers. That said, it is certainly heartening to have our efforts recognized by an independent organization assessing our program from its own objective vantage point."
According to Healthcare Administration Degree programs, "For this ranking, we looked for selective small schools (undergraduate population of 3000 students or less) that offer a bachelor’s degree in healthcare administration, healthcare management, or a related field. We examined the institution types, accreditation, affiliations, awards, and rankings. We looked at the faculty strength and ratio, as well as the admission rate, retention rate, and average net price of the college. Based on these guidelines, we determined the 15 best small colleges for a bachelor’s in healthcare administration."
Wescoe's accelerated degree program provides students with the competitive edge necessary to separate themselves from other aspiring leaders, teaching them to apply sound business principles to specific challenges of the healthcare industry. Rather than a lecture/examination format, this program is modeled after graduate degree programs that emphasize leadership and team-based learning. The curriculum addresses the challenges of a rapidly evolving, integrated healthcare delivery system in which managers are expected to maintain the highest quality and positive patient outcomes while challenged by cutbacks in government and insurance reimbursements and significant regulatory oversight. Instead of studying hypothetical case studies, coursework focuses on real-world application of management principles, made possible by Wescoe’s affiliation with local healthcare organizations.
Other institutions recognized are: Warner University, Concordia University – Texas, Northwood University – Texas, Belhaven University, Bluefield State College, Jefferson College of Health Sciences, St. Thomas University – Florida, Gardner-Webb University, University of Saint Mary, Baptist Memorial College of Health Sciences, Trine University, Southern Adventist University, Oakwood University and SUNY Institute of Technology at Utica-Rome. 
The Wescoe School strives to provide lifelong learners the opportunity to continue and enhance their education, and to do so in ways that recognize their experience, maturity, motivation, life circumstances and capacity for independent scholarship.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















