






2015: 'Berg hosts Lehigh Valley students in national chemistry competition | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











'Berg hosts Lehigh Valley students in national chemistry competition


Local-level portion of You Be The Chemist ChallengeÂ® sponsored by Brenntag North America, Inc. and Muhlenberg's department of chemistry



	 Tuesday, February 17, 2015  09:51 AM

Muhlenberg College will host 30 local middle school students in the You Be The Chemist Challenge®, an academic question-and-answer competition created by the Chemical Educational Foundation (CEF) on February 21, 2015 from 9:15 a.m. - 1:00 p.m in the Seegers Union Event Space. Students from  Muhlenberg's chemistry and biochemistry club will also be performing chemistry demos for the students at the event. The Challenge competition aims to engage fifth through eighth grade students in chemistry through a dynamic event that partners industry members with schools and organizations in the communities in which they operate.
“The Challenge exposes students to the fascinating world of chemistry as it applies to their everyday lives, allowing them to gain a greater appreciation of how chemistry and chemicals will continue to shape their world,” stated CEF’s Executive Director, John Rice. “Additionally, linking industry, educators and students together not only builds stronger community relationships but also highlights the importance of science education in an informal and celebratory manner,” he added.
This local-level portion of the Challenge is sponsored by Brenntag North America, Inc. and Muhlenberg’s chemistry department. 
The top four students from the Lehigh Valley Local Challenge will advance to the Pennsylvania State Challenge on April 25, 2015, held at Penn State, State College, Pa. The winner of the state competition will move on to compete in the National Challenge held on June 22, 2015 in Philadelphia, Pa. There, they will compete with state winners from across the country.
Brenntag is a global market leader in chemical distribution. Headquartered in Germany, the company operates a global network with more than 480 locations in over 70 countries. For more information about Brenntag’s North American operations, headquartered in Reading, Pennsylvania, visit www.brenntagnorthamerica.com.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















