






2015: Jeffrey Alexander delivers lecture on the Holocaust and moral responsibility | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Jeffrey Alexander delivers lecture on the Holocaust and moral responsibility


Yale professor of sociology discusses cultural trauma theory


	 Friday, February 13, 2015  10:53 AM

Jeffrey Alexander, Lillian Chavenson Saden Professor of Sociology at Yale University, will give a public lecture, "Cultural Trauma, Social Solidarity, and Moral Responsibility: Reactions to the Holocaust and other Modern Mass Murders" on Monday, February 16 at 8:00 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. Alexander's visit to campus is part of the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program. This event is free and open to the public.
After presenting cultural trauma theory, Alexander's talk will focus on a series of case studies. Shifting postwar Western reactions to the Holocaust will be considered at length, but other trauma processes will also be examined: the anti-imperialist, American civil rights, and indigenous people's movements; Japan's Nanjing massacre and its effects on contemporary relations with China and Japan; and mass murders under the Stalinist and Maoist regimes. 
In addition to his appointment at Yale, Alexander is founder and co-director of the Center for Cultural Sociology. He previously taught for 25 years at UCLA, where he received the Gold Shield Faculty Prize for research and teaching. His visiting appointments include Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions, University of Cambridge; Kluge Fellow, Library of Congress; Visiting Fellow, Goldsmiths College, University of London; and Guest Professor at the University of Konstanz and L'École des hautes études en science sociales. 
Since 1956, the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program has offered undergraduates the opportunity to spend time with some of America's most distinguished scholars. The purpose of the program is to contribute to the intellectual life of the campus by making possible an exchange of ideas between the Visiting Scholars and the resident faculty and students. Visiting Scholars travel to 100 colleges and universities each year, spending two days on each campus and taking full part in the academic life of the institution. They meet informally with students and faculty members, participate in classroom discussions and seminars, and give a public lecture open to the academic community and the general public.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















