






2015: Faculty promotions announced | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Faculty promotions announced


Muhlenberg College is pleased to announce the following faculty members have been granted tenure and promoted to the title of associate professor by the Board of Trustees.


	 Wednesday, February 4, 2015  02:20 PM

Dr. Amy Corbin, media & communication and film studies, specializes in the representation of race and cultural difference in film and is specifically interested in how racial and cultural issues are symbolized by places and geographical relationships like travel. She has published essays on the intersection of femininity and whiteness in Southern films of the 1980s, the multiple locations in Sherman Alexie’s film The Business of Fancydancing, the hybrid aesthetics of Charles Burnett's My Brother's Wedding and the theory of film spectatorship as virtual travel. She is currently working on a book manuscript entitled Cinematic Geographies and Multicultural Spectatorship in America, which demonstrates the way that iconic American places-- Indian Country, the inner city, the south and the suburbs-- were used to express a growing interest in multiculturalism during the post-civil rights era. Corbin’s courses include Introduction to Film Analysis, Film History: 1950-Present, Melodrama, Travel and Cultural Encounters in Film and a first-year seminar on Martin Scorsese.
Dr. Daniel Doviak, philosophy, joined Muhlenberg’s philosophy department in the fall of 2009 after completing his Ph.D. at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.  Before his appointment at Muhlenberg College, Doviak taught courses in normative and applied ethics at the University of Massachusetts, Mount Holyoke College and Western New England College. At Muhlenberg, Doviak regularly teaches courses in Ethical Theory, Epistemology, Business Ethics and Environmental Philosophy. His current research interests include virtue ethics, moral pluralism and the relationship between risk and distributive justice. Doviak’s scholary works include “Virtue, Satisfaction and Welfare Enhancement”, published in Utilitas, and “A New Form of Agent-Based Virtue Ethics”, which appeared in Ethical Theory and Moral Practice. Doviak's most recent project, "A Measure of Justice", develops a risk-adjusted, formal model of desert-based justice and was presented at the 2013 OZSW Dutch Research School of Philosophy Conference held at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, Netherlands. 
Dr. Marcia Morgan, philosophy, specializes in the intersection of ethics and aesthetics, theories of subjectivity and postsecularism, with a focus on 19th and 20th century Continental philosophy, Kierkegaard and existentialism, critical theory and feminist theory. She has recently taught such classes as Philosophy and the Arts, Philosophy of Feminism, Existentialism, Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, 19th Century Philosophy, Phenomenology, 20th Century Continental Philosophy, The Politics of Memory, Theories of Human Nature. Morgan has published two books, one as editor and co-author with Agnes Heller on The Concept of the Beautiful (Rowman & Littlefield, 2012), and one as sole author of a monograph on Kierkegaard and Critical Theory (Rowman & Littlefield, 2012). She has recently published journal articles in The Journal of Speculative Philosophy (Penn State University Press, 2014), Revue Internationale de Philosophie (Belgium, 2015) and Thesis Eleven (Australia, 2014). She has published an essay on Kierkegaard's "Papageno," two encyclopedia articles (on "Spirit" and "Otherness"), and three book reviews in the multi-volume series, Kierkegaard Research: Sources, Reception, and Resources: A Publication of the Soren Kierkegaard Research Centre (Ashgate, 2014 and 2015). She has published book chapters in Schleiermacher und Kierkegaard: Subjectivitaet und Wahrheit (Walter de Gruyter, 2006), Kierkegaard in Lisbon: Contemporary Readings (University of Lisbon, 2012), and The Aesthetic Ground of Critical Theory (Rowman & Littlefield International, 2015). She is currently working on a monograph on Kierkegaard, feminism and phenomenology (Palgrave Macmillan); and book chapters on "Vulnerability and Ethics" for Habermas Now (Polity Press) and on "Kierkegaard, Habermas, and the Obsolescence of Political Theology" for Kierkegaard and Political Theology (Pickwick Publications). She is also currently editing and contributing an introduction to two books: a monograph by Agnes Heller on The Philosophy of Dreams, and a collection of essays titled Thinking the Plural: Richard J. Bernstein's Contributions to American Philosophy, with a Foreword by Ed Casey and an Epilogue by Richard J. Bernstein.
Dr. Eduardo Olid, languages, literatures & cultures, has been teaching courses at Muhlenberg in Spanish language, literature and culture since 2009. His purpose as a teacher is to form a creative, engaging and open minded environment so that the student can develop as a critical thinker through experiences within and beyond the classroom. In this sense, his research agenda connects with his teaching approach, resulting in scholarly work inspired by class discussion, and in the development of interdisciplinary projects where my research interests are shaped through my interaction with students. His research focuses primarily on early modern Iberian literature, theater, performance, cultural studies and history. Olid’s immediate priority is to edit and publish his manuscript Del teatro a la novela: El ritual del disfraz en las Novelas ejemplares de Cervantes (From Theatre to Novel: The Ritual of Disguise in the Novelas ejemplares by Cervantes). His second book project will focus on the presence of Elizabeth I Tudor in early modern Spanish literature, elaborating on an article recently published in the journal Cervantes. Lastly, a parallel research project he is now initiating has to do with his recent interest in the history of political science. The work will explore the influence of Niccolò Machiavelli’s political thought on early modern Spanish literature.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.  Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















