






Electives | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsFilm StudiesRequirements for the Major/Minor Electives 






Electives














Electives











FacultySCMS-U 2019Study Abroad Film Screening ScheduleRequirements for the Major/Minor Student ProductionsFacilities & Equipment











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsFilm StudiesRequirements for the Major/Minor Electives 















ENG 207 Into to Playwriting 
Students will learn the rudiments of dramatic writing through lecture, readings, and weekly assignments dealing with structure, characterizations, dialogue, and other areas of the playwright's art. Students' works will be shared and critiqued by the class, operating as a playwrights group. Each student will complete at least a ten-minute play and a 30-minute one-act play during the semester.Meets general academic requirement AR.
 
ENG 255 Literature and Film 
This course examines the relationship between novels and plays and their film-adaptations, concentrating on the different ways in which we read and interpret these narrative forms. The course will attend closely to the variety of decisions that inform the translation of literary works into a different medium with different conventions for a different audience.Meets general academic requirement HU.
ENG 321, 322 Shakespeare Reproduced 
This course primarily focuses on the reproduction of Shakespeare's plays on film and, to a lesser extent, the appropriation of Shakespeare's plays by modern playwrights. Plays and films on which we will focus in the next several years include Heiner Muller's "Hamletmachine", Julie Taynor's "Titus", Michael Almereyda's "Hamlet", and Kristian Levring's "The King is Alive".Prerequisite(s): THR 100 Theatre & Society: An Historical Introduction or any 200 level ENG course or permission of instructor.Meets general academic requirement W when offered as 322.
FLM 349 Arts Reviewing
This writing-intensive course focuses on reviewing film and other art forms for both popular and scholarly outlets. Students will review classic and contemporary films, as well as television programs, books, visual art, music, theatre, video games, and food, in a variety of lengths and formats, for different intended audiences. The course will also include extensive practice in editing and re-writing and may include trips to local cinemas to review films on short deadlines. Students will learn about ways to develop and market their own critical voice.Attendance at weekly screenings is required.Meets general academic requirement W.
FLM 360 Major Filmmakers
This course focuses on one or two major filmmakers and considers repeated and/or developing themes in his or her body of work. While the filmmakers under consideration vary, the course deals with similar questions each time: the validity of the auteur theory as a way of understanding film, the relationships between filmmakers and their art, and the nature of our ideas about art and artistic production. Attendance at weekly screenings is required. Meets general academic requirement HU.
FLM 388 1999
While the turns of the calendar might be arbitrary, 1999 turned out to be a year of epoch-defining films, many of which still attract significant critical and cultural attention nearly 25 years later. While the films in this course are widely varied, we can use them to create a hazy portrait of a transitional year, when concerns about the future, the economic system, racial hierarchies and shifting gender roles played out on multiplex screens. This course will consider a variety of blockbusters and art-house films in multiple genres. Attendance at weekly screenings is required. 

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















