






2015: Karen Dearborn to receive Distinguished Service Award from LVAIC Dance Consortium | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 






2015













2015











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2015 











Karen Dearborn to receive Distinguished Service Award from LVAIC Dance Consortium


Award to be presented at Muhlenberg's Master Choreographers performance


	 Tuesday, February 3, 2015  02:33 PM

Professor Karen Dearborn, founder and chair of the Muhlenberg College Dance Program, will receive the Distinguished Service Award from the LVAIC Dance Consortium prior to the performance of Master Choreographers on Thursday, Feb. 5.
The Dance Consortium is a collaborative effort of the Lehigh Valley Association of Independent Colleges (LVAIC), created to pool resources to bring world-class performers and choreographers to the Lehigh Valley. Now in its 40th year, the Dance Consortium includes Cedar Crest College, DeSales University, Lafayette College, Lehigh University, Moravian College, and Muhlenberg College. The Distinguished Service Award is presented annually to a member of the Lehigh Valley dance community for outstanding contributions to the advancement of local dance.
The award will be presented by Deborah Sacarakis, artistic director of the Zoellner Arts Center at Lehigh University and recipient of the 2014 award. Ms. Dearborn is the 24th recipient of the Distinguished Service Award.The award ceremony will take place at 8 p.m., at the beginning of Thursday's performance. A reception will follow the performance.
Master ChoreographersFeb. 5-7 in the Empie TheatreBaker Center for the ArtsMuhlenberg College
Thursday, Feb. 5, 8 p.m.Friday, Feb. 6, 8 p.m.Saturday, Feb. 7, 2 & 8 p.m.
Tickets:Muhlenberg & LVAIC students, faculty & staff: $8Regular Admission: $15
484-664-3333muhlenberg.edu/dance
Karen Dearborn has choreographed over 80 works in concert, theatre, and musical theatre, including national tours of the Tony Award-winning National Theatre of the Deaf and several Equity theatres. She has provided choreography for Summer Music Theatre productions of A Chorus Line, Crazy for You, Hairspray, The Music Man, The Mikado, The Sound of Music, The Who’s Tommy, Fiddler on the Roof, Carousel, Annie Get Your Gun, A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, Guys and Dolls, and Oliver! as well as Muhlenberg Mainstage productions of On the Town, The Pajama Game, The Other Shore, Oklahoma!, Urinetown, Cabaret, and West Side Story. She also regularly choreographs dance works for Master Choreographers. Ms. Dearborn is the chair and founding director of Muhlenberg’s Dance Program. Her scholarly research has been published in The Journal of Dance Education, and she contributed an essay to the book Performing Magic on the Western Stage. She serves on the executive board of the American College Dance Association. 
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















