






Procedures | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesRegistrarCoursesLVAIC Cross-RegistrationProcedures 




















Procedures











ProceduresLVAIC websiteCedar Crest CollegeDeSales UniversityLafayette CollegeLehigh UniversityMoravian College











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesRegistrarCoursesLVAIC Cross-RegistrationProcedures 













The Lehigh Valley Association of Independent Colleges (LVAIC)
The course schedules for all LVAIC institutions are available and searchable from the LVAIC web site.  All policies and procedures remain as listed below. 
Full-time, degree-seeking students who have completed at least 4 course units in good academic standing may enroll for up to two courses per semester at any one of the LVAIC member institutions (Cedar Crest College, DeSales University, Lafayette College, Lehigh University, and Moravian College).  The student must obtain approvals from his or her faculty advisor.  Courses must not be offered regularly by Muhlenberg College and must be within the bounds of a regular course load.
In the case of LVAIC courses, unlike other course transfers, both courses and grades will be treated as Muhlenberg courses for degree requirement and grade point average purposes.  Additional information, may be found on the LVAIC web site in addition to the web sites of the member institutions.  While forms are available in the Office of the Registrar for all LVAIC courses and programs, there is now an online process.
How to Cross-Register – The student should register during the regular registration or add/drop period as scheduled at his or her home campus, following this procedure:
1. Students will go to the LVAIC web site to search for courses.
2. Students review the course offerings available for cross registration and select a course to request
3. After completing the Request for Cross Registration form, the information is sent to the student's advisor who will approve or deny the request.
4. Advisor approved course requests will be sent to the student's home Registrar for any additional approvals.
5. If approved by the home Registrar, the information will be sent to the host Registrar for review.
6. Registration by the host school is dependent upon course availability and registration time lines.  Students may not know the result of their request until the beginning of the semester.
7. Students will be informed of the result of their request by the host Registrar.
 
 
 



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















