






Reflections on Our Current Moment | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionReflections on Our Current Moment 






Reflections on Our Current Moment













Reflections on Our Current Moment











Report a Bias Incident2020-2021 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ReportBlack Lives MatterPresident's Diversity Advisory CouncilPDAC Diversity Initiatives Progress ReportAbout the Associate ProvostMulticultural LifeRelated Offices and ProgramsFinancial Hardship Resources











Home
Who We AreInstitutional InitiativesDiversity & InclusionReflections on Our Current Moment 











Reflections on our Current Moment
June 2, 2020

To my fellow members of the Muhlenberg Community,
I write to you today feeling called to name the injustices we are witnessing, to be with you in community, and to uplift those among us, particularly in the Black community, who are led to believe that our lives are less valuable than others. At the same time, I am feeling at a loss for words, flooded instead with emotions, many of which are often deemed too ugly or intense or inappropriate to share in public spaces and forums. I want to affirm, however, that feeling anguish and crying out after witnessing the racist murder of George Floyd is an appropriate response to violent and senseless loss. Feeling anger after learning of the homicide of Breonna Taylor in her home at the hands of police is an appropriate response to an unprovoked killing of an unarmed woman. Feeling fear after witnessing Ahmaud Arbery being hunted and killed while on a jog is an appropriate response to racist violence. The weight of this feels too heavy a lift, the pain too crushing to face, and it has kept me from raising my voice publicly thus far. 
I am, however, personally called today, as I have been in my career, to play an active role in resisting racial injustice and caring for my community. I can do that by offering safe spaces to express our collective grief. I can listen to students, staff, and faculty and work to insure that minoritized voices are reaching the very top of our institutional leadership and incorporated into action. I can deploy my training and expertise to educate others on anti-racism and effective allyship to support those who want to join the resistance. Opportunities to join me in all of the above will be announced in the coming days. And to those who are witnessing the murders of these Black men and women, and are seeing your aunt, your cousin, or your brother like I am, I can remind you that you matter, that your presence in our community matters, that your safety matters, that your dreams matter, and that your life matters. I am here for all of us who are hurting today and all of us who will be in the fight for racial justice tomorrow. 
Yours in community and solidarity,

S. Brooke Vick, Ph.D.Associate Provost for Faculty and Diversity Initiatives

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















