






Featured Story: Emily Bayer '14 and her "Thinking Wall" display years of research discoveries | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Emily Bayer '14 and her "Thinking Wall" display years of research discoveries


She's using molecular genetic techniques to study animal development. 


	 Thursday, May 8, 2014  04:12 PM

If you’re a frequent visitor to the second floor of the New Science Building, you’ve likely seen Emily Bayer’s “Thinking Wall.”
Between faculty offices and laboratory space sprawls a collection of bright blue and green notes, drawings, diagrams and the occasional Internet meme. The collection displays and chronicles the discoveries and processes that Emily has unveiled and developed over two years spent in Bruce Wightman’s laboratory.

Emily, a biology and German studies major, structured the central focus of her research around using molecular genetic techniques to study animal development. She works with C. elegans, a type of roundworm called a nematode, that researchers have chosen as a good system for asking questions about animal development and studying how these questions apply to all other animals, including humans.
She first began the thinking wall two years ago while exploring how C. elegans respond to varying oxygen concentrations via a specific neuron type. In an attempt to compare what was already known to the discoveries she was making herself, a series of notes grew to help demonstrate connections. And as the problems and challenges posed by her research grew, so did the thinking wall itself.
Her most recent research topic explores a gene that is involved in controlling differences in types of neurons, an elaborate network of which make up the nervous system in human beings and other animals. That same gene plays a similar role in other types of cells that exist outside of an organism's nervous system.
Emily will begin a Ph.D. program in molecular biology this summer at Columbia University. She’ll have rotations in two different laboratories studying the process of neuron specification, continuing to research projects similar to those she has explored the last few years in Bruce Wightman’s lab.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















