






Featured Story: Muhlenberg College Celebrates 2014 Commencement | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Muhlenberg College Celebrates 2014 Commencement


Muhlenberg awards degrees to 540 recipients in the 166th Commencement Ceremony.


	 Wednesday, May 14, 2014  11:15 AM

On Saturday, May 17 and Sunday, May 18, Muhlenberg College welcomed family, friends and members of the community in celebration of the College's 166th Commencement weekend.
Muhlenberg awarded the degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Sciences and Bachelor of Arts & Sciences to 540 degree recipients. Erin Laney '14, who earned her B.A. in American Studies and Spanish and is certified to teach grades 4-8, served as student speaker.  Saturday night, during the Baccalaureate ceremony, seniors Benji Kornbluth, Avni Mittal and Matthew Bocchese provided reflections on their four year experiences.

Ron Chernow, American Historian Laureate and Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Washington: A Life, served as Commencement Speaker. Chernow was awarded an honorary doctor of letters degree. Henry David Abraham, M.D. ’63, noted psychiatrist whose research contributed to the development Diagnostics and Statistical Manuals of the American Psychiatric Association, was awarded an honorary doctor of human letters degree. Donald Holder, recipient of two Tony awards and lighting designer of more than 40 Broadway productions, was awarded an honorary doctor of arts degree. Dr. Carson D. Schneck, M.D., Ph.D. ’55, renowned professor of anatomy and diagnostic imaging at Temple Medical School, was awarded an honorary doctor of science degree.  Dr. Amy Hark, associate professor of biology and co-director of the biochemistry program, was honored with The Paul C. Empie '29 Memorial Award for Excellence In Teaching. This award, honoring inspirational teaching, is given in memory of the Rev. Paul C. Empie '29, D.D., a Muhlenberg Trustee and Chairman of the Board from 1972.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















