






Featured Story: Center for Ethics Examines Memory in the Context of Genocide | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Center for Ethics Examines Memory in the Context of Genocide



Jeffrey Olick and Philip Gourevitch will examine collective memory, particularly in the context of genocide, for the Center for Ethics series Memory and Forgetting on Wednesday, October 19, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.  

 





	 Friday, October 14, 2011  09:58 AM

Their talk, “Collective Memory and National Trauma,” is co-sponsored by the departments of political science, sociology, media & communication and the Multicultural Center.  This event is free and open to the public.
Jeffrey Olick, of the University of Virginia, is editor of The Collective Memory Reader and author of Guilt and Defense: On the Legacies of National Socialism in Postwar Germany and The Politics of Regret: On Collective Memory and Historical Responsibility. Gourevitch is the former editor of the Paris Review, a staff writer for The New Yorker, and author of the award winning We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families, a harrowing book examining the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.
Memory and Forgetting is co-directed by Holly Cate, assistant professor of theatre, and Dr. Paul McEwan, associate professor of media and communication.
For more information on the series, please visit http://www.muhlenberg.edu/main/aboutus/cfe/.
 
Rooney will focus on the planning and organization of corporate retreats, social events, meetings, and conferences.  She will build local, regional and national relationships through summer camps and summer conference programming, utilizing classrooms and the newly renovated J. Conrad and Hazel J. Seegers Union.  She will also continue to develop corporate relations of the College, in particular, by offering corporate internship housing.  
A native of Emmaus, Rooney graduated from the Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College in 2002 and now resides in Allentown.  She worked with Marriott International, Inc. for eleven years, most recently acting as the Business Transient Sales Manager at the Philadelphia Marriott.  Past positions have also included Senior Sales Manager of Groups at the Philadelphia Airport Marriott and Senior Account Manager for the Philadelphia Market Sales Team, a role in which she served 13 Marriott hotels in the Philadelphia region.
 
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















