






Featured Story: Muhlenberg College Students Promote Campaign to End Sexual Assault | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Muhlenberg College Students Promote Campaign to End Sexual Assault


Muhlenberg College students are working with Lee Kolbe, Title IX Coordinator, in a campaign to recruit the College community to stand as advocates in eliminating sexual assault.


	 Tuesday, January 27, 2015  00:28 PM


Information displays accompany posters showing Muhlenberg students holding signs denouncing sexual assault. The images of students and their personal statements are visible throughout Seegers Union’s Light Lounge. The area serves as a hub for campus activity, and students are making the most of the location by providing resources for survivors of assault or those who want to learn how they can help end assault.
Video organized and produced by the Muhlenberg College Students for Reproductive Justice and written and directed by Shira Gorelick '16 and Erin Gistaro '16.
"We hope that this campaign will encourage students to take it upon themselves to intervene in situations where they see and encounter risky behavior," says Hannah Bobker '17. "We want our community to step up, speak out and take action to protect their peers."
Visitors are asked to sign a physical or virtual pledge from ItsOnUs.org, an awareness campaign to help end sexual assault and gender-based violence on college campuses. Statistics from notalone.gov indicate that one in five women and one in sixteen men will experience sexually assault in college. The students leading the campaign believe that having conversations about assault, which admittedly can be difficult, is the first step to ending the violence.

"Sexual assault is an issue that's not often talked about, and this campaign creates conversations that make people face it," says Hannah Busis '17. "Talking about sexual assault makes people feel collectively more responsible, and that may be the best way to end it. Muhlenberg is a caring community, which makes it even more important for us all to take responsibility for each other."
The It’s On Us campaign at Muhlenberg College is an initiative of Lee Kolbe, Title IX Coordinator, and is supported by the division of student affairs, the Feminist Collective, Hillel, PHAM (Peer Health Advocates at Muhlenberg), SASS (Sexual Assault Support Services) and Students for Reproductive Justice.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















