






Featured Story: Muhlenberg College Choir to perform in  New York Theatre Workshop production | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Muhlenberg College Choir to perform in  New York Theatre Workshop production


The Muhlenberg College Choir will appear in The Events, a theatrical performance staged by the New York Theatre Workshop (79 E. 4th Street, New York, NY 10003), on February 14, 2015 at 2:00 p.m.


	 Wednesday, February 4, 2015  02:28 PM


"Our choir is thrilled and honored to participate in this extraordinary artistic production that highlights the values of community, collaboration and interdisciplinary learning central to our College's philosophy," said Michael Schnack, director of the Choir.  
Award-winning Scottish playwright David Greig’s The Events follows a community’s search for compassion, peace and understanding in the wake of unthinkable violence. Delving into faith, politics and reason, Ramin Gray’s internationally acclaimed and theatrically inventive production features a soaring soundscape and a different local/area choir at each performance, drawn from diverse communities. The hit of the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, where it garnered five-star reviews, along with a Fringe First and the Carol Tambor Best of Edinburgh Award, the Actors Touring Company production of The Events has gone on to international acclaim and comes to New York for a strictly limited engagement in February and March 2015.

The Muhlenberg College Choir comprises students of every academic discipline, as well as faculty, staff and alumni. 
Three Ways to Purchase Tickets: 
-CLICK HERE to purchase tickets online, 24 hours a day. Please specify February 14 matinee.
-Call Ticket Central at 212-279-4200, 12:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. daily. Please specify February 14 matinee.
-Visit the Ticket Central Box Office*, located at 416 West 42nd Street (between 9th and 10th Avenues), from noon – 8pm daily. Please specify February 14 matinee.
*Note this is not the performance venue. The Events will take place at New York Theatre Workshop, located at 79 East 4th Street and tickets purchased online or by phone will be held at the box office located at our theatre on East 4th Street.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year college located in the Lehigh Valley of eastern Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.  Muhlenberg offers programs in the liberal arts and sciences, along with selected pre-professional studies and a number of interdisciplinary majors.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















