






Featured Story: Women's basketball win Centennial Conference championship to advance to NCAA Tournament | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Women's basketball win Centennial Conference championship to advance to NCAA Tournament


The Mules captured their eighth CC title with wins over Johns Hopkins and McDaniel over the weekend.


By:



  Muhlenberg College Sports Information  



	 Monday, March 2, 2015  04:38 PM

Muhlenberg College women's basketball won its eighth Centennial Conference championship on February 28 with a 68-64 victory over McDaniel, earning an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament.
"It's really indescribable. I don't want to say I can't believe it, because I have all the confidence in my teammates," said senior Nicole Pepe after participating in a postgame net-cutting ceremony and posing for picture after picture after picture with the trophy and those teammates.
"All I can say is that it's awesome," said senior Leanna Tallamy, who was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Player after recording 20 points and nine rebounds in the title game. ""I've wanted this ever since I transferred here. I wanted to win a championship."
She got her wish after an insanely intense game that, with the exception of a three-minute stretch to end the first half and start the second, was played within a five-point window throughout and featured 17 lead changes. The Mules (20-7) did not lead by more than four points until the final 10 seconds.

The Centennial Conference-champion Mules (20-7) will travel to Geneseo State to face Cabrini in a first-round game on Friday, March 6 at a time to be determined. Geneseo will host Castleton in the other first-round game, with the winners meeting Saturday night for the right to advance to the "Sweet 16."
Although it's the opposite direction from where most Muhlenberg students go over Spring Break, traveling north has suited the women's basketball team just fine. Both of the Mules' "Sweet 16" appearances came when they were sent north: in 2009 to Bowdoin and in 2011 to Rochester.
Muhlenberg enters the NCAA Tournament on a roll, having won 17 of its last 19 following a 3-5 start. The Mules rank fifth in Division III in field-goal percentage defense, holding opponents to 31.1-percent shooting. They are 7-8 all-time in the NCAA Tournament.
This article is an excerpt from Women's Basketball Headed to New York and Women's Basketball - CC CHAMPIONS! To read more about 'Berg athletics, visit MuhlenbergSports.com.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















