






Featured Story: Muhlenberg receives Center for Undergraduate Research in Mathematics grant  | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Muhlenberg receives Center for Undergraduate Research in Mathematics grant 


The grant provides $15,000 for student stipends and $6,000 to fund faculty research, in addition to dedicated allowances for travel to the Student Research Conference this summer at Brigham Young University.


By:

 

  Melissa Rosenberg '15  


	 Monday, April 27, 2015  11:12 AM

Pictured: Emily Nguyen '16
The Muhlenberg College math department was awarded a mini-grant of $25,500 from the Center for Undergraduate Research in Mathematics (CURM). The grant provides funding for student research with Dr. Daniel File, visiting assistant professor of mathematics & computer science, and Dr. William Gryc, assistant professor of mathematics & computer science.
CURM, funded by the National Science Foundation, focuses on assisting underrepresented student groups such as females and minorities. At least four out of the five students involved in the grant research will be female. More than half of the math majors and minors at Muhlenberg are women.
Some students will research “best offer” purchase behaviors on the auction website eBay. The students working with Gryc are currently enrolled in Auction Theory; course materials will provide a foundation for the research project. In addition to course-related material, several students will also pursue independent research topics within the fields of analysis and probability. File’s students will focus on topics related to algebra and number theory.
“We hope that these experiences will help our students excel as graduate school candidates,” said Gryc. “The opportunities provided by the CURM grant will continue a culture of research in mathematics and will better prepare our students for graduate education in pure mathematics.”
One of the goals of the research opportunity is for Muhlenberg students to present the results of the research and submit a paper with their findings for publication.
“This grant builds in really good incentives for the students to not only publish their work, but also present it at a national meeting,” explained File. 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















