






Featured Story: The Muhlenberg Start-Up Experience 2013: A Two Day Workshop for Social Impact Entrepreneurs | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











The Muhlenberg Start-Up Experience 2013: A Two Day Workshop for Social Impact Entrepreneurs


Muhlenberg College encourages students to innovate with "Building Sustainable Cities," one new venture at a time.


	 Wednesday, October 16, 2013  04:19 PM

Muhlenberg College will host the Muhlenberg Start-up Experience, a two-day intensive workshop for sustainability-minded young adults on October 18 and 19 from 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. in the Seegers Union Event Space.

Fouad Saleet, director of the Center for Leadership and Involvement at Colgate University, will facilitate the two-day program. Saleet is a 1999 graduate of Muhlenberg College.
The program is focused on applying entrepreneurial techniques to create more “Sustainable Cities” through new venture creation. The program helps young entrepreneurs work in teams to envision new solutions, investigate and develop them into a clear concept, and then present their ideas to a panel of judges in a fast-paced format.
The program is open to all Muhlenberg College students, not just those studying entrepreneurship or business. There will also be students from Ursinus College and other local institutions. Registration is $25 in advance and $35 at the door. Students interested in registering online may do so at http://mcstartupexperience.eventbrite.com/.
The program will culminate with a competitive presentation and judging process Saturday afternoon. The judging panel will include Nancy Cleveland, co-founder and principal of Resonate, LLC, and Rob Friedman ’84, private investor and president of Premier International Corp.; and College employees: Mohsin Hashim, associate professor of political science; Clif Kussmaul, associate professor of computer science; and Kalyna Procyk, sustainability coordinator.
For more information on this program, visit the Start-up Experience on the Entrepreneurial Studies site.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















