






Featured Story: Spotlight on Student Scholars - Elizabeth Neary | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 






Featured Story













Featured Story











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive Featured Story 











Spotlight on Student Scholars - Elizabeth Neary


Elizabeth Neary '14 conducted original research at Muhlenberg College and Princeton University to learn more about one of the most important women writers of the 1890's.


	 Thursday, January 23, 2014  11:25 AM

Elizabeth Neary ’14 is an English and Spanish double major. While researching topics for her junior year thesis, she consulted with Dr. Grant Scott, professor of English and chair of Muhlenberg’s English department. He suggested that she revisit an author who had piqued her curiosity in “Decadence: The Literature of the 1890s,” a course she had completed during her sophomore year with Scott.

Elizabeth received a Muhlenberg College Dean’s grant to complete summer research on George Egerton, the pseudonym for Mary Chavelita Dunne Bright. Today, Egerton is seen as a New Woman and feminist writer, though she herself often disputed those terms. Her work featured assertive female protagonists whose lifestyles argued for the agency of women in an era of Victorian ideals insistent upon women serving primary functions as wives and mothers.
“My most interesting conclusion about her writing was how Egerton’s personal life informed radical, intellectual and complex female protagonists,” says Elizabeth. “I think the bravery she shows not only in writing these imagined roles of women but also living the life of travel, having affairs with famous male authors, marrying three times; she does it unapologetically, but she received harsh criticism for her own lifestyle and the lifestyle depicted in her stories.”
Elizabeth conducted her research by examining both published works and criticisms by Egerton as well as reading the personal letters and original manuscripts housed in the Rare Books Collection of Princeton University’s Firestone Library.
“It was fascinating when the process changed from reading short stories to directly reading primary sources and letters that had been written in 1893 and 1894,” says Elizabeth. “Reading that correspondence really deepened my understanding of her as an individual and as a writer; it showed a motive to her stories and informed how her life related to them.”
The Student Scholar Spotlight video series profiles the work of Muhlenberg students that have been engaged in independent research or scholarship for several semesters.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















