






Honors Programs | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiochemistryInformation for StudentsHonors Programs 






Honors Programs














Honors Programs











Research OpportunitiesHonors ProgramsCareers in BiochemistryFacilitiesProfessional OrganizationsStudent Profiles











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiochemistryInformation for StudentsHonors Programs 













Honors Program

Any major who is interested in working towards honors in biochemistry is expected to initiate planning and discussion of possible honors research projects with a faculty mentor no later than his/her junior year or the following summer. Acceptance into the honors program is selective and is based on the following criteria:

Availability of research positions and funds in the laboratory of the selected faculty mentor.
Approval of an honors proposal prior to the beginning of the student’s senior year (or last full year of undergraduate study). The proposal must be submitted to the faculty mentor and an honors committee created by August 1 prior to the senior year.
Minimum GPA of 3.30 in courses counting towards the biochemistry major.

Acceptance into the honors program does not guarantee that honors will be awarded. In order for biochemistry honors to be granted at commencement, the following conditions must be met:

The student has achieved a minimum GPA of 3.30 in courses counting towards the biochemistry major.
The student has conducted, at a minimum, the equivalent of 1.5 course units of research during the senior year and has met the expectations established by the faculty mentor.
The student has presented his/her research in a public seminar and discussed the work in an oral examination with honors committee members.
The student has submitted a thesis that has been approved by the honors committee.
The student has regularly attended the Biology or Chemistry seminar series throughout the senior year, or is otherwise engaged in programs in the Natural Sciences Division.

The honors committee will evaluate the quality of oral and written presentations of the project as well as the research undertaken and the merit of the science. In addition, the quality of all biochemistry course work and the involvement in a seminar series or other engagement will be considered in determining the degree of honors awarded (none, honors, high honors, or highest honors, with highest honors being rarely awarded). In cases where there are multiple honors committees functioning in a given year, all committee members will meet together to discuss the presentation of each candidate’s research and determine the degree of honors.
For a more complete description of program requirements, please review the documents below. If you have further questions, please speak with Dr. Colabroy or Dr. Hark.
Biochemistry honors program description
Thesis proposal guidelines
Honors thesis guidelines




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















