






Faculty Research Programs | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsChemistryResearchFaculty Research Programs 






Faculty Research Programs














Faculty Research Programs











Faculty Research ProgramsStudent Research











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsChemistryResearchFaculty Research Programs 











Faculty Research Programs
Chemistry department faculty engage in a variety of research efforts and routinely involve Muhlenberg students in their projects. Research in the Chemistry department is done with the intent to publish interesting results and observations to the scientific community. These publications frequently have Muhlenberg student co-authors.
Analytical Chemistry Faculty: Ingersoll Analytical Chemistry is concerned with making measurements! Analytical chemists want to find the best new ways to increase accuracy, selectivity, sensitivity, and reproducibility in detection. Analytical chemistry includes bioanalysis, electrochemistry, mass spectrometry, microscale systems, environmental analysis, separations, and spectroscopy.
Biochemistry Faculty: Colabroy, Hark (Biology) Biochemistry is where chemistry, molecular and cell biology meet. Biochemists seeks to understand the mechanisms behind biological phenomena. Biochemistry considers the structure, function, and regulation of biologically active molecules; gene structure and expression; biochemical mechanisms; protein biosynthesis; protein folding; and so much more!
Environmental Chemistry Faculty:  Kelsey, Ingersoll Environmental chemistry examines the chemistry of soil, air, and water, the interactions and cycles of elements between them, and the pollutants that can adversely affect these important resources. An environmental chemist could track the movement of pollutants through soil and seek to understand the effects of their chemistry on the environment.
Inorganic Chemistry Faculty:  Keane Inorganic chemistry is the study of metal based compounds, their structures and reactions. Metal based compounds are often catalysts and can be found in bioinorganic chemistry and organometallic chemistry.
Organic Chemistry Faculty:  Keane, Young Organic chemistry is concerned with the structure, function and reactions of carbon based compounds. Organic chemists may study new reactions of organic molecules or perhaps take on the role of architect and assemble a compound using a series of consecutive chemical reactions.
Physical Chemistry Faculty:  Anderson, Sparks Physical chemistry is concerned with the study of molecules at their most fundamental level. Physical chemists think about dynamics, spectroscopy, molecular structure, bonding, quantum chemistry, and the structure and properties of surfaces and interfaces. Physical chemists are often found working with lasers...

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















