






Cashier Information | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesBusiness OfficeFor StudentsCashier Information 






Cashier Information














Cashier Information











Fee ScheduleFormsFor StudentsFor ParentsFor EmployeesFAQsOffice InformationOne-Time Tuition PaymentTuition and Monthly Plan Payment Options











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesBusiness OfficeFor StudentsCashier Information 













Cashier Information
Location: Basement of the Haas Building
Hours

every afternoon from 1:00 pm to 3:00 pm
Monday and Friday from 10:30 am to 11:30 am
Wednesday from 10:00 am to 11:30 am

Personal checks up to $50.00 may be cashed for students presenting Muhlenberg College Student ID.
Personal checks up to $100.00 may be cashed for staff.
Petty cash limits – Reimbursements are available for petty cash expenditures (under $50.00). If the expenditure exceeds $50.00, a check request is required and you will receive a check through accounts payable.

Petty Cash Form

Deposit Function:
The cashier will accept deposits from college departments and student organizations.

Student Bank Deposit Form

Requirements for Deposits: It is the responsibility of the depositor to count and reconcile the deposit. Cash should be separated and grouped according to denomination. Coin should be wrapped. Checks should be reviewed and stamped “For Deposit to Muhlenberg College”. The deposit total should be reconciled and a calculator tape verifying the deposit and total must be attached to the deposit. If a department or a club has a large deposit the checks should be batched in bundles of fifty (50) and a tape should be done for each bundle. Contact the Cashier for a deposit stamp for your department. A deposit reconciliation sheet is required. Contact the Cashier for assistance.
Student Organizations
Requests for Checks or Reimbursements: All Club Treasurer should contact the Cashier for their warrant book and information on their requirements for depositing and disbursing funds.
The Cashier should receive warrants by 3:00 pm Monday to be processed on the Thursday check run. Any warrants received after Monday will be processed on the following week’s check run.
In order for the warrant to be complete, an explanation sheet and an invoice/document as backup verifying the purpose and amount for the disbursement should be attached. Examples of this documentation are actual invoices from the company, a receipt that shows payment has been made and a reimbursement is required, a contract from a performer (all persons or groups performing a service must submit a tax identification number, address information and a current phone number). A 1099 Miscellaneous Income Tax Form will be issued to those vendors performing a service.
All warrants and explanation sheets must be approved and signed by the club advisor. An addressed envelope should be included with checks requests that are to be mailed. Checks will be available for pickup at the Cashier’s window. Your Muhlenberg College Student ID is required when picking up a check.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















