






Graduate Academics | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply








Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMuhlenberg College School of Graduate StudiesGraduate Academics 






Graduate Academics













Graduate Academics












Graduate Programs

4+1 Program

Graduate Catalog
Summer Study

Request Information

Apply












Home
AcademicsMuhlenberg College School of Graduate StudiesGraduate Academics 











Dedicated to life-long learning within the framework of a liberal arts education, Muhlenberg College has been an incubator for innovative pedagogy and alternative methods of course delivery.
As a Muhlenberg graduate student, you'll be part of this academically strong learning community that has a reputation for fostering close relationships with faculty who bring strong academic credentials and deep industry experience. You will build your network with other professionals and enjoy a seat in dynamic classes filled with adult students with varied backgrounds and interests, eager to share, learn and grow. And know that faculty and staff at Muhlenberg are committed to preparing you for career success.
We encourage and welcome you to visit our campus and meet with our VP Executive Director, Dean of Graduate Studies, or other graduate admissions advisors. Visiting prior to application is not necessary. However, it can be a chance to explore the fit between you and Muhlenberg College School of Graduate Studies. It can also be a chance to develop a relationship with a graduate advisor who can then act as an advocate and resource for you.
The Office of Graduate Studies is located on the second floor of Peter F. Gabriel House and is open Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 a.m.; Tuesday and Thursday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Saturdays 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. by appointment.
School of Graduate StudiesGabriel House2400 Chew StreetAllentown, PA  18104Telephone: 484-664-3300 | Fax: 484-664-3532graduatestudies@muhlenberg.edu 
Complete information about graduate programs and policies is available on the graduate studies website. Current and prospective students are advised to consult the web version of the catalog and the websites of the Office of Graduate Studies for updated policies and additional information.





























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion










Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply








Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts






 
 
 


















