






RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsProvostpoliciesRELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE 






RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE














RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE











Coronavirus InformationAbout the ProvostAcademic AffairsFaculty HandbookCommitteesDepartment Chairs Faculty MeetingRequest for Expenses at a Professional MeetingFaculty DevelopmentFaculty AwardsFaculty GrantsReportsFormsInstitutional ResearchNSSE 2014 ResultsAcademic Program GoalsAdministrating Survey 











Home
AcademicsProvostpoliciesRELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE 













RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS AND CLASS ATTENDANCE

Muhlenberg College recognizes the importance of religious expression in the lives of many of our students. Indeed, the quality and strength of religious life is one of the distinctive characteristics of the College, attracting many students to Muhlenberg.
Muhlenberg College has a long standing policy that students may make arrangements to make up course work missed due to a holiday when their religion prohibits them from work. This policy means that a student will not have the absence counted against the course grade and will be allowed to complete required assignments after returning from the absence.  Furthermore, absences for religious holidays with work restrictions will not count toward the total of excused absences allowed in a given class.
There are many religious observances (for example Ramadan in Islam and Hanukkah in Judaism) that do not require that a student miss class - since work is not prohibited. However, many of these holidays impact a student's life in important ways.
Responsibilities of the instructor include:
Instructors will make sure that work missed for a religious holiday can be made up by the student.
Instructors will articulate clear guidelines for how a student may make up missed work.
Instructors will make students aware of the way in which an attendance policy allows for making up work missed for a religious holiday.
Instructors may give an exam on a religious holiday provided that there is an appropriate way for a student to make up the exam if it is missed due to the observance of a religious holiday.
Responsibilities of the student include:
Students are required to identify to the instructor, in advance, that their absence will be for excused religious reasons.
Students must make these arrangements with their instructors in a timely fashion and in a way that allows for the instructor to plan how missed work will be made up.
Students are required to make up any work that is missed.
Students must take responsibility for honestly representing their religious commitments when missing a class.
Campus chaplaincy staff is available at any time to help our community understand the role of religious holidays in the lives of students, faculty, and staff. They should be called with any questions; if they cannot answer a question, they will be able to refer to a reliable source of information.
Dates for the current year may be found at http://www.muhlenberg.edu/main/campuslife/religiouslife/holydays.html
Contact:  Bruce Anderson, Interim Provost, 484-664-3130

 




















Contact Information

Office of the Provost









Email

provost's_office@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3134







Address

Muhlenberg College
Office of the Provost
College Center, 3rd Floor
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















