






Core Apps | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesInformation TechnologyG SuiteCore Apps 






Core Apps














Core Apps











Core AppsFrequently Asked QuestionsDocumentationVideo LibraryTraining











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesInformation TechnologyG SuiteCore Apps 















G Suite for Education Core Apps
G Suite Core Services are Gmail, Calendar, Chrome Sync, Classroom, Contacts, Drive, Docs, Forms, Groups, Sheets, Sites, Slides, Talk/Hangouts and Vault.  
The following G Suite Core Apps are supported by the Office of Information Technology. 











          Gmail
  








Gmail is the official email system of Muhlenberg College. In addition to sending email, you can text and video chat, and save important messages in folders. Access your Muhlenberg Gmail account via the Application Portal.
Support & Training

Visit the G Suite site for documentation on using Gmail. 
G Suite Learning Center







          Calendar

  








Keep track of important meetings and events using Google Calendar.
Access your Muhlenberg Google Calendar via the G Suite app in the Application Portal.

Share your calendar with others
Maintain multiple calendars
Schedule time and location for events
Add notes, reminders, and attachments to events
Create shared calendars for groups
Invite others to events
Email updates to event participants

Support & Training

Visit the G Suite site for documentation on using Calendar
G Suite Learning Center







          Contacts

  








Contacts is a web-based service that allows End Users to import, store, and view contact information, and create personal groups of contacts that can be used to email many people at once.
Support & Training

Visit the G Suite site for documentation on using Contacts
G Suite Learning Center







          Drive
  








Google Drive stores your files and lets you access them from any computer.
Access your Muhlenberg Google Drive via the G Suite app in the Application Portal.

Collaborate on docs with others in real time
Create and share text documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and forms
Store images, PDFs and Microsoft Word and Excel files
Access and save files directly from Gmail

Support & Training

Visit the G Suite site for documentation on using Drive
G Suite Learning Center







          Groups
  








Google Groups @ Muhlenberg is an online space where group members can hold discussions on multiple topics. For example, a group called "Careers in Business" might discuss topics such as "Internships" or "Entrepreneurship." Members post topics and reply to them. Only Google Admins can create a Group. 
Request a Google Group (authentication required). 
Access your Muhlenberg Google Groups via the G Suite app in the Application Portal.

Can be public or private
Faculty/Staff can request Manager rights. Managers must have a muhlenberg.edu Gmail address; non-Muhlenberg Gmail users may be invited to participate as Members in select groups
Effective way to bypass email and conduct a conversation with multiple people
Efficient way to share Drive folders/files

Support & Training

Visit the G Suite site for documentation on using Groups
G Suite Learning Center







          Docs,Sheets,Slides,Forms
  








Create, edit, share, collaborate, draw, export, and embed content on documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and forms.
Support & Training

G Suite Learning Center







          Sites
  








Create a website to share info with others.
Recommended for: committees, projects, internal communications
Support & Training

How to use Google Sites







          Chat and Meet
  








"Google Hangouts," "Google Chat," "Google Meet," are web-based services that allow for real time communication between End Users. Google Hangouts provides one-to-one and group conversations via chat messaging, and voice, as well as lightweight video meetings. Google Chat provides an enhanced chat messaging and group collaboration platform that allows content integrations with select third-party services. Google Meet provides enhanced large-capacity video meetings. 
Support & Training

Google Meet Training & Help
Google Chat Training & Help






 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















