






Students and Academic Advising | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesDean of Academic LifeAcademic AdvisingStudents and Academic Advising 






Students and Academic Advising














Students and Academic Advising












Academic Department Chairs

Academic Policies and Procedures/College Catalog
Course Placement Information

Recommended Courses by Departments & Programs

Referral Guide













Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesDean of Academic LifeAcademic AdvisingStudents and Academic Advising 















Academic advising is integral to your development as a student and important for your educational, career and personal goals. Advisors are a part of your network at Muhlenberg and can help to guide you through the planning of your courses, connect you with on and off campus opportunities, resources and individuals who will be important to your development. Academic advisors are only one type of mentor for you at Muhlenberg. Other faculty and staff, coaches, alumni and peers may serve in an advisory capacity. Your academic advisor can help you to build your personal network. Advisors offer you advice as you move throughout your college experience. You are responsible for your own decisions on your educational journey.











          Types of Academic Advisors
  








Throughout your time as a student, you will engage with different academic advisors.

Summer advisor: during the summer of your entering year your summer advisor will begin to discuss your academic and career interests and get to know you on a more personal level in order to help you select your first semester courses.
First Year advisor: all First Year students are assigned an academic advisor based upon your assignment to a First Year Seminar. All students enter Muhlenberg College without a declared major. You will remain with your FY advisor until you declare a major.
Major advisor: once you formally declare a major you will be transferred to a faculty member in the department or program of interest. If you are a double major you will have two advisors. Advisor assignment varies by department/program. In some instances you may be able to choose your advisor, in other instances you will be assigned based upon advisor workload. You must meet with your major advisor(s), at minimum, prior to registration for the upcoming semester.
Minor advisor: if you formally declare a minor you will also be assigned a minor advisor. While you are not required to meet with your minor advisor prior to registration, it is strongly recommended that you do so in order to ensure that you are making satisfactory progress towards the minor.
Professional/career advisor: if you plan to enter medical school or law school we also have pre-professional advisors who will meet with you to discuss your career plans and make recommendations about appropriate courses for your intended career.







          Student Responsibilities
  








Academic advising is a two way relationship that requires your active engagement. As a student you are responsible for:

Taking the time to reflect on your personal values, educational, career and life aspirations and engage your advisor in conversation about how to engage in our community in ways that maximize your opportunities to achieve your goals.
Providing your advisor(s) with information about any changes to your academic plans or career goals.
Understanding graduation requirements and asking your advisor for clarification about policies and the curriculum.
Being aware of academic policies or knowing where to find information about academic policies.
Exploring all of the resources available to you on campus including those available through the Academic Resource Center, Career Services, Digital Technology Learning Team, Trexler Library and the Writing Center.
Knowing how to use Workday Student to manage your courses, family permissions and your progress towards graduation.







          Tips for Enhancing your Academic Advising Appointment
  








Academic advising is a two way relationship that requires your active engagement. As a student you are responsible for:

Scheduling an appointment with your advisor and be on time for your scheduled appointment.
Be prepared to speak with your advisor about any concerns that you may have regarding current and future courses.
Ask your advisor about any prerequisite courses for your program and how they might affect your course sequence.
Prior to registration, be prepared to discuss course selection and have courses in mind that you would like to take in the upcoming semester. Choose alternative courses before your appointment in case your preferred courses are not available at the time of your registration.
Know what General Academic Requirements and major/minor requirements are still needed for you to complete your degree.
Ask questions regarding policies and procedures that are unclear to you.







          College Resources
  








There are many college resources to assist you as you make connections between your educational aspirations and your life and career goals. This Referral Guide provides a list of offices to support you.
View Referral Guide





 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















