






First Year Students Info | Muhlenberg College





















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesDean of Academic LifeAcademic AdvisingAcademic Advising GuideFirst Year Students Info 






First Year Students Info














First Year Students Info











Academic Advising GuideAcademic Department ChairsCourse Placement InformationRecommended Courses by Departments & ProgramsReferral Guide











Home
Who We AreCollege OfficesDean of Academic LifeAcademic AdvisingAcademic Advising GuideFirst Year Students Info 















First Year Students
Working with First Year students presents its own unique opportunities to connect with new students and help guide them towards feeling a sense of connection to our community. Your relationship with them sets the tone for other faculty and staff interactions and expectations about the academic experience. As shown in recent NSSE survey results, the quality of the academic advising experience is linked to student retention. Thus, you play a very important role in ensuring student success and satisfaction.
First Year advising may be embedded into your First Year Seminar creating an opportunity for group interaction and conversation about the Muhlenberg experience. If you are a FY advisor but not teaching an FYS, you may want to find it helpful to meet early in the semester to check in on your advisees integration into college life.
Below are some recommendations as you work with First Year Students:

First Year students knowledge about college varies as some students may be first generation to college, international students, or have had siblings enrolled at Muhlenberg.
First Year students need help navigating all of the college offices. While most will be enrolled in a fall Foundations of Student Success Course, basic information reinforcing how to find information and ask for help is paramount to a student finding connections or knowing where to connect when needed.
Before your first meeting, check to be sure that your advising is registered for a Foundation of Student Success Course and an FYS during the academic year.
Before your next meeting, check to make sure that your advisee has taken their math, second language, and if applicable, chemistry placement exam.
Be aware of any new Academic Policies that impact your advisees and introduce graduation requirements at your first and subsequent meetings as needed.
Review any letters in their file regarding AP exam placement or transfer credit.
If the student is working with our Office of Disability Services, remind them to make an appointment with the office to schedule accomodations for the semester.
View recommended FY courses webpage.
If needed, review Course Placement Information webpage.
If needed, review College Board AP Placement webpage.
Remind them about support services including Tutoring Services, the Writing Center, Library Specialists, Digital Learning Specialists and other college resources.

Additional Resources:

First Year Academic Advising Guidebook
New Insights for Teaching and Learning in the First Year
Pronoun Usage Guide


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















