






Facilities | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyFacilities 






Facilities














Facilities











Student PortalFacultyResearch CollaborationExperiential LearningMission Major RequirementsFacilitiesAlumni Senior Thesis











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyFacilities 











Moyer Hall Facilities
Completing the academic circle around Muhlenberg College, Moyer Hall features state-of-the-art classrooms and lab spaces. The building is shared with the Education, Philosophy, and Religion Departments.  The eastern half of the second floor of Moyer is devoted to Psychology Department faculty offices. The offices are near computers and seating areas available to students which facilitates informal interactions (and often deep relationships) among faculty and students.
There are 12 shared classrooms in Moyer, each with full media capabilities and one with computer stations for students that integrate technology into the teaching/learning process. There are also two classrooms dedicated exclusively to psychology. Both offer advanced technological and organizational flexibility, allowing for close student-faculty interactions during class. That flexibility is an especially important part of the methods, statistics, and advanced research courses which are typically taught in those rooms.
The entire basement of Moyer Hall is dedicated research space for psychology. The space includes rooms for small group experiments, cubicles to run individual participants, and a dedicated interview room for qualitative research. We have advanced hardware and software designed to assist with data collection, including E-Prime and reaction time response boxes, Qualtrics, eyetracker, mousetracker, and Biopacs. To analyze data, we primarily use SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences), which is available across campus. 
Our animal facility is housed in the New Science building and allows for learning and memory research with rodents. Student researchers conduct studies using the sand maze, odor discrimination digging task, operant chambers, and elevated plus mazes.
These resources complement those available to all students at the Trexler Library and via campus-wide Information Technology.




















Contact

Cristina Gonzalez


Administrative Assistant









Email

cristinagonzalez@muhlenberg.edu








Telephone

484-664-3420







Address

Muhlenberg College
Psychology
Moyer Hall 227
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















