






Experiential Learning | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyExperiential Learning 






Experiential Learning














Experiential Learning











Student PortalFacultyResearch CollaborationExperiential LearningMission Major RequirementsFacilitiesAlumni Senior Thesis











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyExperiential Learning 











Experiential Learning
Psychology has been one of the top three most popular majors at Muhlenberg for the last decade. One reason for the popularity of the major is our innovative teaching. All faculty members deeply value the benefits of small class sizes. Introductory Psychology typically has about 35 students per section, but the remainder of our courses average between 15 - 25 students each. Working with a smaller group of students allows professors to better tailor their instruction to individual students, effectively employ innovative pedagogy (e.g., service-learning), and engage in meaningful class discussions, experiments and demonstrations. For example, in the Clinical Case Studies seminar, students study actual clinical cases, learning how to conceptualize a case to understand the complexities a client brings to a practioners. Stop by any day and you will see a wide range of approaches in the classroom. You may see a traditional lecture, a student-led discussion, student presentations, group collaboration, role-playing exercises, or laboratory research. In some cases, you may not see students in the classroom at all because they are out "in the field" getting hands-on experience that complements and enriches their classroom learning.
Internships
On average, approximately 10 students per semester complete internships and receive academic credit for their work. Even more do volunteer-work and internships without receiving academic credit. An internship granting academic credit is a work experience characterized by intentional learning. During this experience, the student assumes a responsible role in an organization and actively reflects on what he or she is observing or learning. Muhlenberg Psychology students have held internships in many different settings. Recent internships include: the Morning Call newspaper, the Autism Resource and Community Hub of the Lehigh Valley (ARCH), Boston Children's Hospital, National Institute of Mental Health, Turning Point of Lehigh Valley, the Lehigh Valley Hospital: Adolescent Transitions program, and the Summer ADHD Treatment program at New York University. Current students interested in an internship can learn more here.
Community-Based Learning
Community-based learning (or service-learning) combines lessons within the classroom and the community to reinforce knowledge and address community needs and desires. Service-learning courses engage students, faculty and community in mutually beneficial relationships allowing for programs/projects that enhance community and provide students the opportunity for reflection on experiences. Some examples include:


Students in Developmental Psychopathology served as co-facilitators of a social-emotional learning curriculum ("Strong Start") at a local therapeutic charter school. "Strong Start" is designed for teaching social and emotional skills, promoting resilience, strengthening assets, and increasing coping skills of young children. Psychology of Women students paired with female residents at the Phoebe Home to provide companionship and discuss gender issues across the lifespan. In Multicultural Psychology, students develop facilitation skills, so they can act as discussion leaders during the Youth and Prejudice Conference. This bi-annual conference brings together middle and high school students to discuss and challenge bias and prejudice. The Advanced Developmental Research course partnered with local schools (e.g., South Mountain Middle School, Jefferson Elementary School) to aid in increasing family engagement and community connectedness. Students developed measures assessing variable such as language barriers, issues of cultural and social capital, and community connectedness. They collected and analyzed data from representative samples of students, family members, teachers and administrators. Health Psychology students have done many projects, including designing, implementing and evaluating community interventions to address childhood obesity in collaboration with the Allentown Health Bureau and St Luke's Community Health Program.
In a special topics research seminar, students review contemporary research on the theory, practice, and evaluation of mindfulness interventions.  As part of the seminar, students  collaborate with a community partner (www.shanthiproject.org) to evaluate the effectiveness of their ongoing school-based mindfulness programs.


 
Questions?
Peruse our website to learn more about the psychology major, and be sure to check out our Facebook page for the latest news. Don't hesitate to e-mail or call any professor with questions. 




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















