






Research Collaboration | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyResearch Collaboration 






Research Collaboration














Research Collaboration











Student PortalFacultyResearch CollaborationExperiential LearningMission Major RequirementsFacilitiesAlumni Senior Thesis











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyResearch Collaboration 











Student-Faculty Research Collaboration
 
Recent professional publications and presentations.
 Learning how to conduct empirical research is central to the education of the psychology major. After conducting research while at Muhlenberg, students often continue such work in graduate programs, and in business settings that increasingly depend on their employees to understand people and to know how to learn about them in systematic ways. Students are introduced to research immediately in Introductory Psychology by participating in research studies being conducted by our faculty and upper level students. This foundation continues through other courses in the major including Psychological Statistics and Research Methods. Most notably, the 400-level Advanced Research courses serve as our capstone course for the major. Students develop and conduct their own high-quality, novel, and sophisticated research studies. They practice valuable communication skills by presenting research at our in-house Psychology Day conference each semester.
Beyond the classroom, dozens of students each semester work directly with faculty on their research, and develop independent projects in collaboration with faculty. Specific faculty research interests vary widely (e.g., understanding trauma, risk perception, perceptions of ADHD and autism, music perception, multiculturalism). See our faculty pages for more information about current research interests. These collaborations frequently result in publications or presentations at regional, national, or even international professional conferences.
Current students interested in doing research can learn more here.
 
Psychology Senior Thesis Program & Graduation Honors
Each year, additional students choose to participate in our year-long thesis program featuring advanced, original research. The program is developmental in that it seeks to offer intellectually curious students an intensive year-long experience of mentorship and collaboration. Thesis students are eligible to receive graduation honors and may apply for one of the departmental annual research award: The Rosenberg Award and the Crist Family Research Fellowship. Successful completion of a thesis and a psychology GPA of 3.7 or better are both required for departmental graduation honors. For more information visit the this page.
 
Questions?Peruse our website to learn more about the psychology major, and be sure to check out our Facebook page for the latest news. Don't hesitate to email or call any professor with questions, or contact the main Psychology Office at 484-664-3420. 
 
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















