






Hunger in the Midst of Plenty | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesCenter for EthicsPast ProgramsThematic ProgramsHunger in the Midst of Plenty 






Hunger in the Midst of Plenty














Hunger in the Midst of Plenty











Pandemic: Response, Resilience, ReflectionEngaging in Speech and ActionBorders, Nationalisms, IdentitiesCrisis EarthTroubling TruthWar and PeacebuildingInfluence & InformationLiving-Learning Experience











Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesCenter for EthicsPast ProgramsThematic ProgramsHunger in the Midst of Plenty 















FALL 2001
Advances in agriculture allow for the production of enough food to feed everyone in the world. Yet many people do not have enough to eat while others never lack for food. Hungry people can be found in foreign countries, throughout America, and right here in Allentown. From September 10-21, the Center for Ethics will sponsor a series of programs to help us understand the basic issues surrounding hunger, consumption, and food distribution. Programs will include lectures, experiential learning opportunities, and social action events.

Common Interest September 10-21 Faculty members across campus will integrate the Center's theme into course curricula, providing a unique, cross-disciplinary learning environment. Students will learn about world hunger from a variety of perspectives and will be able to understand the issues surrounding hunger with greater depth.
 World Game Institute Monday, September 10, 7 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Life Sports Center The World Game is a hands-on learning experience, played on a giant world map. Each participant represents a stakeholder in the world economy (e.g., the farmers of a particular country, or a member of the world bank). Divided into regional teams, players strive to develop solutions to local, national, and international problems. The game is customized and will make direct connections between our local, regional, and state economies. The game can accommodate up to 200 players.
 Population Resource Center Wednesday, September 12, 8 p.m. Miller Forum Presentation by Dr. Charles Westhoff (Princeton University) on U.S. population policy at home and abroad, and on population projections and demand for food. This lecture is free and open to the public.
 Hunger Banquet Wednesday, September 19, 5:30 p.m. Miller Forum Student-run program that offers participants an experiential introduction to international food distribution. During the meal, presenters offer facts about world food production and distribution, and lead participants in discussion.
 Panel Discussion: Reducing World Hunger Thursday, September 20, 8 p.m. Chapel A panel of international experts debates potential solutions to the problem of world hunger. This lively discussion will identify the things we can do to contribute to a reduction in hunger. Panelists will include scientists, representatives from developing nations, a representative from the food production industry, and an environmental activist. One focus of the discussion will be on debates over the development of genetically engineered crops. This event is free and open to the public.
Associated Programs
Student groups are joining together to raise money for "The Heifer Project," an international program that provides income-producing animals such as chickens, cows, and bees to needy families all over the world. These efforts will be coordinated through the Community Service office. For more information about the project, see www.heifer.org
Student groups will sponsor information tables in Seegers Union to address hunger from particular perspectives related to the mission of their group. This will be coordinated by student leaders.
The Chapel service on Sunday, September 9, 1 p.m., will include study and reflection on issues of world hunger, coordinated by Chaplain Peter Bredlau.
 Lecture/Demonstration Tuesday, October 2, 7 p.m. Baker Theater, Trexler Pavilion for Theatre and Dance Bonnie Marranca will present a lecture/demonstration exploring themes of hunger in the work of contemporary, American playwright Wallace Shawn. Ms. Marranca's presentation will include excerpts from Shawn's plays performed by professional actors, including Devon Allen; directed by Assistant Professor Dr. James Peck.
Ms. Marranca is founder and editor of Performing Arts Journal and one of the most respected writers on the arts in the US and abroad.
This event is free and open to the public.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















