






Living-Learning Participants 2008-2009 | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesCenter for EthicsPast ProgramsLiving-Learning ExperienceLiving-Learning Participants 2008-2009 






Living-Learning Participants 2008-2009














Living-Learning Participants 2008-2009











Living-Learning Participants 2009-2010Living-Learning Participants 2008-2009Living-Learning Experience 2008-2009











Home
AcademicsCenters & InstitutesCenter for EthicsPast ProgramsLiving-Learning ExperienceLiving-Learning Participants 2008-2009 













Meet the Living-Learning Experience Faculty and Student Participants






Name: Troy Dwyer, Faculty Advisor Hometown: Atlanta, GA Year: Professor (this is my sixth year at Muhlenberg) Major/minor: My undergrad major was in Psychology; my graduate degree is in Theatre Favorite class taken in college: in undergrad, Gender & Communication; in grad school, Postmodernism in Performance Best thing I’ve read in college so far: in undergrad, “Visual Pleasure in Narrative Cinema” by Patricia Mulvey; in grad school, Gender Outlaw by Kate Bornstein What I like to do: “Write, daydream, play with little plastic men, watch cartoons, read comics, make art on the stage.” My politics: “Adlai Stevenson sums it up: ‘I have been thinking that I would make a proposition to my Republican friends ... that if they will stop telling lies about the Democrats, we will stop telling the truth about them.’” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I want to see the US return to a position of true global leadership – one in which we are more respected and admired than we are feared and resented.  I’d also like to see this country get its act together and allow same sex couples access to marriage.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “Very often I understand animals more easily than people, but I haven’t given up yet.”





Name: Jake Herb, Student Assistant Hometown:  Honey Brook, PA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Chemistry/Undecided Math, Anthro or Communications minor Favorite class taken in college: Media & Society Best thing I’ve read in college so far: “Who’s that Girl” by Lynn Hirschberg What I like to do: “I like to listen to music, hang out with friends, play guitar, watch movies, exercise, and play video games.” My politics: “I am someone who likes to think that the last eight years didn't happen, but am willing to listen carefully to those who disagree.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I would like to see wider health care coverage, investments in alternative energy, and focus on Afghanistan.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I'm a psuedo-Buddhist and a vegetarian, but I don't like pushing those things on people, unlike some people I know.”





Name: Jessica Shawn Hertz Hometown:  New York, NY Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Definitely Undecided Favorite class taken in college: First Year Seminar: Queer & Pleasant Danger Best thing I’ve read in college so far: Communities Without Borders by David Bacon What I like to do: “Shop, go for super long walks in the city, travel … anywhere.” My politics: “If Communism worked, it would be perfect.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I hope to see the United States become more welcoming to those who may not fit an ‘American standard’ mold.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I’m a non-practicing vegetarian.”





Name: Rachel Kitch Hometown:  Claremont, CA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Religion Studies Favorite class taken in college: First Year Seminar: To Hell and Back, Writing Theory Best thing I’ve read in college so far: Midnight's Children by Salman Rushdie What I like to do: “I love to work in the (theatre) scene shop and I am mildly addicted to all Joss Whedon shows.” My politics: “I think that there is a reason people working for the government are called civil servants: the government should work to serve and protect the needs of its people and that is why voting is so important.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I hope that in the next four years the United States finds a way to be involved in the international arena without trying to dominate the scene and I hope we remember all the struggles we face here that have been overshadowed by the War in Iraq.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I am a military brat and growing up all over made me think a lot about what it means to be in the United States and what is important to everyone and what is just regional.”





Name: Natalie Krajsa Hometown: Allentown, PA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Double-major in Dance and Communications Favorite class taken in college: First Year Seminar: Reflections of Pop Culture Best thing I’ve read in college so far: Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale Hurston What I like to do: “Dance, teach little kids science at The Da Vinci Center Summer Camp, shop, knit, and read.” My politics: “I tend to be more liberal when it comes to politics.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I hope to see the country become more fuel and energy efficient as well as making more significant changes towards solving global warming. Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I’m really sixteen years old at heart.”





Name: Tom Reilly Hometown:  Macungie, PA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Undecided, but will mostly likely double-major in Spanish Favorite class taken in college: American Ethnicity Best thing I’ve read in college so far: The Iliad by Homer What I like to do: “I’m usually at soccer practice, playing some other sport for fun, or hanging out with friends.” My politics: “I’m very open to the viewpoints of others and have differing opinions on separate issues, so I have a tough time classifying myself politically.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I would like to see the United States address the poverty problem within our own country and also stop trying to force our way of life on other countries.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I have somewhat of an obsessive personality so if something is bothering me and/or I’m very interested in something at that moment, I spend the majority of my time talking and thinking about that issue.”





Name: Ella Retterer Hometown: Lititz, PA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: English/Psychology Favorite class taken in college: Intro to Psychology Best thing I’ve read in college so far: Magia Sexualis by Hugh B. Urban What I like to do: “Traveling, reading, cooking, eating.” My politics: “I believe in change and Barack Obama.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I would love to see the United States improve education, improve job availability, become more eco-friendly and aware, and be an overall more likeable country!” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I've lived in a foreign country with a family that didn't speak English and I had the time of my life! I love new places, experiences, and challenges, and I'm a person that can easily adapt into almost any situation!”





Name: Ethan Simon Hometown:  North Wales, PA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Undecided, with interests in Philosophy and Economics Favorite class taken in college: Metaphysics Best thing I’ve read in college so far: Second Treatise of Government by John Locke What I like to do: “Pleasure reading and the saxophone.” My politics: “I change my mind all the time!” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I’d like a better sense of financial and social security.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “I am often in deep thought and end up looking like I came from a funeral service.”





Name: Daniel Wayne Hometown:  Alexandria, VA Year: Sophomore Major/minor: Undecided Favorite class taken in college: Methods of Film & Video Analysis Best thing I’ve read in college so far: “The Promise,” Sociological Imagination by C. Wright Mills What I like to do: “When I’m not being academic, I enjoy the visual arts.” My politics: “I am a social liberal and economic conservative.” How I’d like to see the United States change during the next 4 years: “I would like to see the United States become more racially tolerant.” Something many people don't know about me, but if they did, they'd understand me better: “My family and I recorded every episode of ‘The Simpsons’ for the first thirteen seasons, on VHS tape.”






























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















