






Religion Studies | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsReligion Studies 






Religion Studies
Discern the role of religion for individuals, cultures and societies in a context of free inquiry and critical examination.













Religion Studies











Major, Minor & Honors Thesis RequirementsFaculty & StaffCoursesJewish StudiesAsian StudiesEvents and Road TripsTheta Alpha KappaDepartment Mission & Goals











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsReligion Studies 











What can you do with a religion studies major?Everything.
Students of religion explore some of the most fascinating areas of the human experience. Among other questions, they inquire into the many understandings of reality and the many manifestations of sacred practice across cultures. Religion is a field of study that is both personally rewarding and highly relevant in its applications to the contemporary world.
Our students learn to discern the role of religion for individuals, cultures, and societies. They study and compare the myths, symbols, and rituals of various religious traditions in a context of free inquiry and critical examination. Through their studies they come to recognize the internal coherence and distinctiveness of diverse worldviews.
In keeping with the enormous changes in the world and the increasing controversy surrounding religious issues, the department seeks to provide students the opportunity to explore religious diversity in many different historic and contemporary forms, including religions of East and South Asia, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Why choose Muhlenberg for religion studies?
Habits of MindThrough our curriculum, graduates learn to read closely, think critically, discuss insightfully, and write analytically. These skills are the heart of a liberal arts education. Our program of study prepares students for whatever educational and professional paths they may choose and builds their capacity to be lifelong learners.
 













Religion Studies
Fall 2022 Courses to Check Out










Islamic Traditions



Surveying the beliefs, practices, and history of Islam and what it means to consider Islam as a religion rather than a cultural or political entity.




rel 227: learn more



















Speaking with the Divine



Understanding the social significance and political function that asserting the power to speak with the divine has provided people in the past and today.




rel 137: learn more



















Buddhist Traditions



Introduction to the origins, evolution, and manifestations of Buddhism in scripture, practice, and artistic expression.




rel 225: learn more



















Modernity & the Death of God?



Does modernity mark the end of religion? Does modernity shape religion or does religion shape modernity?




rel 121: learn more



















Jewish Traditions



Examining the development of diverse Jewish communities from antiquity to the modern era.




rel 229: learn more





















Of Life and Death
alumni perspective
A course on Tibetan Buddhism gave Monica Arora ’15 a new perspective on humanity in medicine. Religion studies alumni Jeremy Fuchs ’14 discusses its impact on her career.




Learn More






















Inside Higher Ed


The Case for Religious Studies: Understanding different religions is not a luxury but a necessity, writes Professor William Gruen.












Read More




















Touching the Past
faculty focus
Associate Professor of Religion Studies Jessica Cooperman emphasizes the importance of primary documents to tell history and focus on the future.




Learn More






















News at Muhlenberg


The Alternative Facts of Life: Dustin Nash’s research on young-Earth-creationist institutions enhances discussion about the creation of knowledge.












Read more























Contact

Religion Studies









Email

religionstudies@muhlenberg.edu







Telephone

484-664-3435







Address

Muhlenberg College
Religion Studies
Moyer 226
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















