






Engaged Faculty | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyEngaged Faculty 






Engaged Faculty














Engaged Faculty











Faculty Directory











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsPsychologyEngaged Faculty 











Engaged Faculty
We currently have 10 full-time professors in our department who teach foundational courses in statistics, methodology, clinical, social, developmental, cognitive, and biopsychology. The varied research and clinical expertise of these accomplished professors also allows us to offer a more complex understanding of the field of psychology and the ways it is changing. Our professors provide courses and/or research experience across a wide range of domains including: multicultural psychology, children's and adolescent's reasoning about stereotypes and inclusion/exclusion, gender identity, racism, existential psychology, psychopharmacology, the neural substrates of memory, women's studies, music perception, risk perception, college student development, assessment and diagnosis of ADHD and autism, spirituality/religion in psychology, and psychotherapy & counseling.
Click here to see a list of our faculty and access their pages.
Regardless of area of expertise, the primary emphasis of each professor is teaching excellence, and the department has multiple winners of prestigious college teaching awards. Some of the most meaningful learning, however, takes place during the frequent one-on-one interactions students have with faculty. While holding the line on intellectual rigor, we are also known as a friendly and accessible group of faculty. We develop close relationships with our students and feel a deep responsibility to do what we can to help them succeed as students, and as people.
Our work as leaders in our field and in the campus community allow us to serve as role models for our students, and equip us with the expertise to mentor them effectively. On campus, our faculty members have won college research awards, and have taken leadership roles in several important areas including: the Women's and Gender Studies Program, Africana Studies, the Center for Teaching and Learning, First Year Seminars, Strategic Planning, College Curriculum, Tenure & Promotion, and the Institutional Review Board. In the field of psychology, our faculty members are engaged leaders in organizations such as the Lehigh Valley Society for Neuroscience, the Association for Women in Psychology, and the American Psychological Association.
We publish in nationally recognized journals and books, for example: Neurobiology of Learning & Memory, Judgment & Decision Making; Teaching of Psychology; Journal of Personality & Social Psychology; British Journal of Developmental Psychology; Applied Developmental Science; Journal of Attention Disorders; Journal of Psychology & Theology; Traumatology; Handbook of Ethics in Psychology; and, the Handbook of Psychology and Gender. We have presented at the meetings of national and international professional organizations including the American Psychological Association, the Society for Research in Child Development, the Association for Psychological Science, the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues, the Society for Neuroscience, the National Association of School Psychologists, and the Association of American Colleges & Universities. Many of those publications and presentations have included student co-authors.
 
Questions? Peruse our website to learn more about the psychology major, and be sure to check out our Facebook page for the latest news. Don't hesitate to e-mail or call any professor with questions. Our Department Chair is Dr. Alan Tjeltveit. He can be reached by phone at 484-664-3421 or by e-mail at alantjeltveit@muhlenberg.edu. 




















Contact

Cristina Gonzalez


Administrative Assistant









Email

cristinagonzalez@muhlenberg.edu








Telephone

484-664-3420







Address

Muhlenberg College
Psychology
Moyer Hall 227
2400 Chew Street
Allentown, PA 18104




























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















