






2010: The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College Celebrates 100 Years of Excellence in Continuing Education | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College Celebrates 100 Years of Excellence in Continuing Education



All year long, The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College will celebrate a century of quality adult education, beginning with a kick-off reception on January 15.


	 Thursday, January 7, 2010  02:21 PM

Through positive, inclusive and innovative approaches to learning, the mission of the Wescoe School is to transform people’s lives, build community and enhance society.
“We are proud to carry on this rewarding tradition.  The benefits of Muhlenberg’s Broad-based liberal arts education are endless,” says Jane Hudak, dean of The Wescoe School.  “With many of our students and alumni living and working in the Lehigh Valley, our community has benefited directly from the degrees and certificates awarded to our graduates over the years, as well as the many service-learning projects they have completed.”
“The events are not limited to those with Muhlenberg College connections,” says Dr. Priscilla Howard, director of teacher certification and chair of the committee planning the celebration.  “We invite our friends in the community to be a part of this year’s events by participating in campus lectures and a special topics course on adult education.  The course will meet on Tuesday evenings and will cover the history, economics, and educational practices of adult learning.”
On February 9, Pamela Tate, President and C.E.O. of the Council for Adult & Experiential Learning, will give a lecture at 7 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.  This event (along with another lecture that will take place in the fall) is free and open to the public.  The Wescoe School strives to provide lifelong learners the opportunity to continue and enhance their education, and to do so in ways that recognize their experience, maturity, motivation, life circumstances and capacity for independent scholarship.
To learn more about the anniversary events or the 25+ programs of study offered at The Wescoe School, contact 484-664-3300, wescoe@muhlenberg.edu.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















