






2010: Americans for the Arts to Announce First-Ever National Arts Index | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Americans for the Arts to Announce First-Ever National Arts Index



The National Arts Index will be announced Wednesday, January 20, at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C.


	 Wednesday, January 20, 2010  02:21 PM

The National Arts Index, created by Americans for the Arts, is an annual measure of the health and vitality of the arts in the U.S., using 76 equal-weighted, national indicators of arts and cultural activity from 1998-2008.  Roland J. Kushner, assistant professor of business at Muhlenberg College, is one of the co-authors of the National Arts Index.
The National Arts Index fell four percentage points to 98.4 in 2008.  The highest index score was 105.5 in 1999.  The Index measures activity in more than 100,000 non-profit arts organizations, more than 600,000 arts-related businesses and more than 2.24 million artists in the work force, who generate billions of dollars in consumer spending.  Some of the key findings of the study were:

Demand for the arts lags capacity; in the 11 years of the survey, non-profit organizations alone grew from 73,000 to 104,000, yet one in three failed to achieve a balanced budget even during strong economic times.


How the public participates in and consumes the arts is changing; arts participation is on the increase, yet attendance at mainstream non-profit arts organizations is on the decline.  Technology continues to have an impact as 50 percent of music and CD stores have disappeared in the past five years.


The competitiveness of the arts is slipping.  While the nature of arts participation is changing, not all arts organizations are equally adept at meeting changes in demand.  The data shows that the arts are not “stacking up” well against other uses of audience members’ time, donor commitments or other spending compared to non-arts sectors.

            Americans for the Arts is the leading non-profit organization for advancing the arts in America.  During its 50th anniversary year,Americans for the Arts is using the National Arts Index as an opportunity to tackle key issues within the U.S. non-profit arts infrastructure in conversations with local, state and national leaders. 
Notes for Editors:

To RSVP for the National Press Club event call Liz Bartolomeo 202-371-280 or email events@artsusa.org
To speak with Professor Kushner, contact him at 484-664-3797 or Kushner@muhlenberg.edu
For copies of the full index, please contact Professor Kushner or Liz Bartolomeo at the above phone numbers or email addresses.
The full release should be on the website following the press conference:













 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















