






2010: Educator Pamela Tate Speaks as Part of the Celebration for the 100th Anniversary of Adult Education at Muhlenberg College  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Educator Pamela Tate Speaks as Part of the Celebration for the 100th Anniversary of Adult Education at Muhlenberg College 



Pamela Tate, President and C.E.O. of the Council for Adult & Experiential Learning (CAEL), will give a lecture on February 9 at 7 p.m. in Miller Forum, Moyer Hall.  


	 Wednesday, January 27, 2010  02:21 PM

This event is free and open to the public, and is a part of the 100th anniversary celebration of adult education at Muhlenberg College. 
Tate is nationally and internationally recognized for her work in facilitating workforce education and training programs among educational institutions, business, labor, government and economic development agencies, and for her efforts in assisting colleges and universities to develop systems of Prior Learning Assessment and quality assurance in adult learning programs. She has been directly involved with the design and implementation of CAEL's tuition assistance management and employee learning programs since 1986 when CAEL launched its first education, training and career counseling program for what was then U S WEST Communications and the Communications Workers of America.
As a presenter, she is regularly sought out for her vision and insights into adult learning and workforce development and their vital relationship to the competitiveness of our workforce and the future of our economy.
She graduated from the University of Illinois at Champaign with masters' degrees in both English and Journalism. She completed her doctoral coursework at the Annenberg School of Communications, University of Pennsylvania. In 1996, Tate was acknowledged for a career devoted to expanding lifelong educational opportunities for adults with the Doctor of Humane Letters honoris causa, conferred by SUNY Empire State College, Saratoga Springs, New York.  In 2005, she was recognized for her lifelong contributions to the field of adult learning and workforce development with the Doctor of Humane Letters honoris causa, conferred by the School for New Learning of DePaul University.  In 2007, Tate was awarded a third degree, Doctor of Humane Letters honoris causa, by Thomas A. Edison State College in Trenton, New Jersey—in recognition of her success in building CAEL and removing barriers to adult learners. 
The Wescoe School of Muhlenberg College strives to provide lifelong learners the opportunity to continue and enhance their education, and to do so in ways that recognize their experience, maturity, motivation, life circumstances and capacity for independent scholarship.
To learn more about the anniversary events or the 25+ programs of study offered at The Wescoe School, contact 484-664-3300, wescoe@muhlenberg.edu.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















