






2010: Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre



Muhlenberg College is celebrating the 30th season of the Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre - Broadway at Home in the Lehigh Valley.  


	 Friday, January 29, 2010  02:21 PM

Since 1981,Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre has presented original stage productions representing the best of the American Musical Theatre to tens of thousands of regional audiences, built a professional working environment for thousands of professional and emerging artists and expanded the creative experiences of hundreds of young people.
Respected for both the cultural and educational value of its programming, the annual summer program serves local artists, musicians and performers as well as audiences.  The program combines the talents of college, community and regional theatre artists who work with professional administrative and technical staff; professional directors, guest directors, designers and choreographers; and professional orchestras. Community outreach efforts include workshops for teenagers, a highly regarded technical internship program, and performing arts camps for middle and school students.
The 30th Anniversary Season: Gilbert and Sullivan’s The Mikado(June 16 – July 3, Empie Theatre), the Broadway hit, The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee (July 14 – August 1, Baker Theatre), and the musical for children, Schoolhouse Rock Live! (June 23 – July 30, Studio Theatre). Tickets for all three shows will be available online beginning April 19th. Auditions for the summer company are February 28 and March 1. Visit www.summerbroadway or call 484-664-3333 for more information.
The Muhlenberg College Department of Theatre & Dance is ranked #4 of theatre programs in the nation by The Princeton Review, producing nationally acclaimed dance and theatre productions throughout the year. Charles Richter, Director of Theatre, is the founding Artistic Director of the Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre.
 
Contact us to request photos, interviews, detailed program information.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















