






2010: Students Organized to Stand with Haiti at 'Berg  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Students Organized to Stand with Haiti at 'Berg 



Muhlenberg College presents Students Organized to Stand with Haiti, Thursday, February 4, at 7:00 p.m., Miller Forum, Moyer Hall. Dr. J. Christopher Kovats-Bernat will be the key note speaker. 


	 Monday, February 1, 2010  02:21 PM

There will also be a screening of Whatever it Takes with Zanmi Lasante, Partners in Health, Haiti. This event isfree and open to the public.
Members of the Muhlenberg College community came together following the earthquake in Haiti, as many communities around the world have, in hopes of contributing to relief efforts on the ground. This group of 60+ individuals elected Partners in Health (PIH) as the benefiting organization of a forthcoming campus-wide fundraising campaign.
An associate professor of anthropology at ‘Berg, Kovats-Bernat is a cultural anthropologist, who is currently the Associate Professor of Anthropology at Muhlenberg College. He is the author of Sleeping Rough in Port-au-Prince: An Ethnography of Street Children and Violence in Haiti (University Press of Florida, 2006). Since 1993, he has conducted research with street children in Port-au-Prince, studying the impact of poverty and civil violence on their survival and their way of life. In 1995, Kovats-Bernat served as an International Civilian Electoral Observer of the Haitian presidential elections that marked the first peaceful transition from one democratically-elected president to the next in Haitian history. Since 1998, he has taken up the study Vodou, especially as it relates to childhood and childrearing in rural Haiti.    The screening of the Partners in Health (PIH) Vision: Whatever it takes will be the second part of this event. The PIH mission is both medical and moral. It is based on solidarity,rather than charity alone. When a person in Peru, or Siberia, or rural Haiti falls ill, PIH uses all of the means at our disposal to make them well—from pressuring drug manufacturers, to lobbying policy makers, to providing medical care and social services. Whatever it takes.
The Students Organized to Stand with Haiti event will be an opportunity for the public to convene and act through donation. Fore more information, please contact The Office of Community Service & Civic Engagement at 484-664-3657, or efreeman@muhlenberg.ed













 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















