






2010: Muhlenberg College breaks ground for new Hillel House this spring | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Muhlenberg College breaks ground for new Hillel House this spring



Muhlenberg College will break ground for a new Hillel House that will involve a major renovation and expansion of its existing Hillel House. 


	 Tuesday, March 2, 2010  00:23 PM

Muhlenberg is the only small liberal arts college in America with fully accredited Hillel Foundation.  The College’s Jewish population is the fifth highest in the country.  Jewish students represent approximately 34.5 percent of the Muhlenberg student body.
A public groundbreaking ceremony will be held April 25 at 11:30 a.m. and will be followed by a brunch.
In addition to the changes at the Hillel House itself, at the start of the academic year, the Student Union will open two Star-K supervised kosher kitchens that will be accessible to all students as part of the College’s meal plan.
Hillel Director and Jewish Chaplain Patti Mittleman looks forward to the changes at the College.  "We have a growing number of kosher observant students who helped guide the College through the addition of the kosher kitchens in the Student Union.  Having kosher kitchens in both the student union and at Hillel will help our chef in preparing for the hundreds of students who join us at Hillel for Shabbat each week." 
With over a 300 percent growth in Jewish students at the College in the past 20 years, Hillel staff, student leadership and the College administration have created a vision for the addition of a Shabbat Dining Room with seating for over 300, a dedicated sanctuary, an institutional kosher kitchen, additional student and staff office space and a student-designed lounge.  The new Hillel House will have close to 20,000 square feet.  The space will be available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Jonathan Falk '10, Muhlenberg's Student Body President and past Hillel President,  explained Hillel's need for the new property,  "The Hillel House isn't just a building on campus.  For me and hundreds of other students Hillel is our home at Muhlenberg.  I am proud to say that in my four years at Muhlenberg I have seen my Jewish family on campus outgrow our family's home." 
Spillman Farmer, the architect leading the project, is committed to preserving the home-like qualities of the existing Hillel House, ensuring that it will remain a comfortable space for students to congregate.
Commitment to this important project is growing each day.  The capital campaign for this project began with an anonymous $1 million challenge gift.  Naming opportunities are still available.
For more information on the Hillel House renovation and expansion project, contact Mittleman at 484-664-3244 or pmittlem@muhlenberg.edu.













 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















