






2010: Muhlenberg College Hosts a Week of V-Day Events | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











Muhlenberg College Hosts a Week of V-Day Events



Muhlenberg College will host a series of student-run and charity-driven events for V-Day Week Writer and activist Eve Ensler began the V-Day campaign as a not-for-profit international movement to raise awareness about, and money for, anti-violence organizations. 


	 Friday, March 12, 2010  00:23 PM

To date, 70 Million dollars have gone to supporting and sustaining programs to help stop worldwide violence against women and girls.
Schedule of Events:
Film and Reception - Until the Violence Stops Monday 3.15, Red Door at 8 p.m.
This 70 minute documentary is a celebration of women reclaiming their bodies and lives. International communities of Vagina Monologues performers offer hope that change is already happening. The film tells the story of how The Vagina Monologues grew into a grassroots movement called V-Day with women from Harlem to Ukiah, California; from the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation to the Philippines and Kenya.
Live Music in Seegers Union by Java Joe's  Thursday 3.18, 7 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
Enjoy student performers and a capella groups.
Performance – “A Memory, A Monologue, A Rant and a Prayer Friday 3.19 – Sunday 3.21  Friday, 3.19 – Saturday, 3.20 at 6 p.m. and Sunday, 3.21 at 1p.m. and 6 p.m. Seegers Union, Red Door Café
"A Memory, A Monologue, A Rant and A Prayer" is Eve Ensler's newest addition to the V-Day campaign, the worldwide movement to stop sexual violence. This play includes pieces submitted by both men and women surrounding their views about women, gender roles, and the effects of sexual violence.
Performance – “The Vagina Monologues” Saturday 3.20 at 6 p.m., Sunday, 3.21 at 6 p.m. Seegers Union, Red Door Café
Celebrated as the bible for a new generation of women, The Vagina Monologues has been performed in cities all across America and at hundreds of college campuses. Witty and irreverent, compassionate and wise, Eve Ensler's Obie Award-winning masterpiece gives voice to women's deepest fantasies and fears, guaranteeing that no one who reads it will ever look at a woman's body, or think of sex, in quite the same way again.           












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















