






2010: 15th District debate set for Muhlenberg College | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 






2010













2010











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2010 











15th District debate set for Muhlenberg College



Plans are set for a major-party debate in the 15th Congressional District at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 14 at Baker Theatre in the Trexler Pavilion for Theatre and Dance at Muhlenberg College.  


	 Friday, September 17, 2010  11:45 AM

Republican Charlie Dent and Democrat John Callahan will face each other one-on-one before a live audience in a program to be televised on PBS 39.
The debate is co-sponsored by The Morning Call, PBS 39, the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce and is being hosted by Muhlenberg College.
The ticketed event is open and free to the public. Tickets were provided from the debate partners. A limited number of additional seats also will be available the night of the debate. Doors open for the public at 6 p.m. and close at 6:45 p.m. due to the live production.
Amy Burkett, senior vice president of production at PBS39, will moderate the debate, which will include panelists from The Morning Call as well as questions from a Muhlenberg College student and from Tony Iannelli, president/CEO of the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce. Colby Itkowitz, The Morning Call’s Washington correspondent, and Scott Kraus, a Morning Call veteran political reporter, are on the panel.
The public will be able to submit video questions via Facebook in advance. The candidates also are being invited to participate at noon Oct. 15 in a Morning Call-PBS39 discussion on the media partners’ websites.
“With questions from college students, the Chamber, from the public via Facebook and our panel of journalists, we will be offering TV viewers a lively and informative exchange,” said David Erdman, editor / vice president of The Morning Call.
“This also will be an opportunity for the candidates to speak to a cross-section of the community.”
The debate will be aired live on PBS39 courtesy of Service Electric Cable TV, will be rebroadcast on the Pennsylvania Cable Network and made available to other media.
"PBS39 looks forward to bringing the candidates’ views in this important race to our viewers,” said Burkett.  “We see sharing information to inform voters as an important part of our mission and we look forward to working with all of our partners to do that."
Republican Dent, of Allentown, is the incumbent lawmaker. Democrat Callahan is mayor of Bethlehem.
The debate partners invited candidates who qualified for the November ballot and who showed 5 percent or greater support in a Morning Call/Muhlenberg College poll of the 15th District. The threshold was modeled after guidelines of the Commission on Presidential Debates, which requires candidates to have a level of support of at least 15 percent.
THE MORNING CALL is the region’s leading newspaper and themorningcall.com is the No. 1 local news website in the Lehigh Valley.
PBS39 is a community-owned public television station serving eastern Pennsylvania.
MUHLENBERG COLLEGE, founded in 1848, is a private, four-year liberal arts college in Allentown.
PCN is a nonprofit, nonpartisan cable television network responsive to the interests and needs of Pennsylvania and its people.
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















