






2017: Muhlenberg students to present work at LVAIC Women & Gender Studies Conference | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg students to present work at LVAIC Women & Gender Studies Conference



This year, seven Muhlenberg students will present their research and scholarship at the annual LVAIC Women and Gender Studies Conference.


By:

 

  Victoria Marsala '17  


	 Monday, March 20, 2017  03:29 PM

‌Pictured: conference presenter Taylor Hunsberger, '17, whose "Women in Power" explores the heroine of the Netflix Series Jessica Jones.
The conference is set to take place on March 25 at Muhlenberg College in Moyer Hall. It will run from 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. and is free & open to the public.
The following Muhlenberg students will be presenting at the conference. Project titles, categories and faculty sponsors are listed below:

Taylor Hunsberger, '17, "Women in Power," Focuses on the Heroine in the Netflix Series, Jessica Jones, academic paper, Media & Communications, Elizabeth Nathanson, associate professor of media & communication
Katherine Kapelsohn, '17, "The Good Samaritan: The Legal Responsibility of the ObGyn in Statutory Rape Reporting and the Role of Social/Medical Support," academic paper, Marcia Morgan, associate professor of philosophy; director of the women's & gender studies program; co-director of the Muhlenberg Center for Teaching and Learning
Nicole Baltzer, '17, "Gender Performance in the 2016 Republican Primary," academic paper, Lanethea Mathews-Schultz, associate professor of political science
Meredith Salisbury, '17, "We Are All Queer Here: Reading Portlandia as a Queer Subculture Utopia," academic paper, Beth Corzo-Duchardt, visiting associate professor of media & communication
Mahsheed Mahjor, '17, "Migration and Refugee Crisis in Europe: State Sovereignty v. Human Rights," academic paper, Marcia Morgan, associate professor of philosophy; director of the women's & gender studies program; co-director of the Faculty Center for Teaching
Tatiana Lovera, '20, "Breaking Glass," Showcases the Direct Aftermath of Trump's Inauguration in Washington, D.C.," photography, Marcia Morgan, associate professor of philosophy; director of the women's & gender studies program; co-director of the Faculty Center for Teaching
Kelly Shannon, '18, "Music and the Queered Gaze: The Extradiegetic Narrative in Fywell's The Woman in White," academic paper, Marcia Morgan, associate professor of philosophy; director of the women's & gender studies program; co-director of the Faculty Center for Teaching

The keynote speaker this year will be M.Ed. Michelle Issadore, the Executive Director of the School and College Organization for Prevention Educators (SCOPE). She is also the Assistant Executive Director of Prevention and Advocacy for the Association of the Title IX Administrators (ATIXA) and the Vice President for Operations and Public Information for The NCHERM Group.
The LVAIC’s Women and Gender Studies Conference gives undergraduate students who have done exceptional work an opportunity to display what they have accomplished. Those eligible to participate are students from any of the LVAIC and surrounding universities and colleges. The categories of work that students can present on are academic papers, research projects, videos, artwork, photography, original poetry and dance.
For more information about the conference, visit the LVAIC website.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















