






2017: Muhlenberg College Choir to perform "I Will" concert | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg College Choir to perform "I Will" concert



Muhlenberg's College Choir, under the direction of Margaret Hanegraaf, visiting professor of music and interim director of choral & vocal activities, and accompanied by Vincent Trovato, will present a concert with the theme of "I Will."


By:

 

  Victoria Marsala '17  


	 Friday, April 7, 2017  08:15 AM


The concert will be held on Sunday, April 9 at 2:00 p.m in Muhlenberg's Egner Memorial Chapel and will be free and open to the public. 
"The choir, which is predominantly First Year folks, has grown so much over the semester and year," said Hanegraaf. "Their joy of singing is evident in our work and shines through in the sound. I am so very proud to have had the opportunity to direct this group this year.”
The choir developed the theme of their concert throughout the semester, building off of their work, their perspectives on life and the connections they had to music lyrics. Each set of work is framed by statements of intention and words of action, and these intentions will be read at intervals during the program. Audience words and wishes of “I Will” will be incorporated as part of the event. 
Musical selections will feature the works: Five Hebrew Love Songs of Eric Whitacre, Northern Lights of Ola Gjeilo, works of Monteverdi, Hans Leo Hassler, Thomas Morley and Z. Randall Stroope. 
“Pieces were selected in part to showcase multiple centuries of great choral works,” explained Hanegraaf. “I thought it would take the direction of a Spring Concert with attention to light, bright and fun repertoire, but the more we worked, I found that I could add a richness of emotion to the texture of the choir's palette.”
Hanegraaf has been teaching voice and Italian and English diction at Muhlenberg College since January 2010. In 2016 as director of opera workshop, she directed and produced a full production of Humperdinck’s Hansel and Gretel. She is a native of Minnesota where she studied at the College of St. Benedict, receiving a degree in choral and instrumental education and vocal performance. She holds a masters of music in performance and literature from The Eastman School of Music and attended the University of Minnesota where she received a DMA in vocal performance. She has sung opera, oratorio and music theater throughout the United States, Europe and Bermuda. Prior to her time at Muhlenberg, her collegiate appointments have been at Montana State University, Concordia College, Mansfield University and Lehigh University.
The Muhlenberg music department hosts numerous concerts and events each semester that are free to the community, including student recitals, various ensemble concerts, workshops, a faculty recital and more. Upcoming events include a concert of Hindustani Ragas with Ken Zuckerman, which will take place on April 19 at 8:00 p.m.in Moyer Hall’s Miller Forum, and a Big Band Concert on April 21 at 8:00 p.m. in Empie Theatre. For more information on events sponsored by the music department, please visit http://muhlenberg.edu/main/academics/music/concertschedule/.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















