






2017: Muhlenberg College and Allentown Art Museum announce agreement | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg College and Allentown Art Museum announce agreement



Muhlenberg College and Allentown Art Museum (AAM) today announced a mutually beneficial agreement, citing both organizations' commitments to the visual arts.


	 Wednesday, February 22, 2017  03:02 PM

Pictured: Tina Hertel, director of Trexler Library at Muhlenberg College; David Mickenberg, president and CEO of the Allentown Art Museum of the Lehigh Valley; John Williams, president of Muhlenberg College; Margo Hobbs, department chair and associate professor of art.
The agreement, which aims to strengthen a longstanding relationship between the organizations, will include a number of benefits to AAM professional staff and members of the Muhlenberg College community.
Under the agreement, AAM professional staff will benefit from borrowing privileges at Muhlenberg's Trexler Library—including access to print and audio-visual resources, electronic databases and journals and interlibrary loan services—as well as on-campus WiFi access and help desk assistance.
Benefits to the Muhlenberg community include unlimited free admission to AAM for Muhlenberg students with an ID during regular business hours, free admission for Muhlenberg faculty members visiting the museum with their class, 100 free passes to AAM per year to be distributed by the President’s Office, access to the collections on view for independent studies in art history or art studio classes and consultation between AAM staff and Muhlenberg faculty to identify and employ parts of the collection that can be used to teach across the curriculum.
"Muhlenberg College is delighted to partner with the Allentown Art Museum in this way," said John I. Williams, Jr., President of Muhlenberg. "The Allentown Art Museum is a wonderful cultural institution located so close to us, so we are delighted that this agreement gives our faculty and students privileged access to these collections in ways that advance our teaching and scholarship."
"One of the Museum's recent initiatives has been to strengthen our ties with the Lehigh Valley's academic community," said David Mickenberg, president and CEO of the Allentown Art Museum of the Lehigh Valley. "This groundbreaking collaborative agreement with Muhlenberg College is a model to be followed with other institutions of higher education in the coming year."     The Allentown Art Museum is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that participates in the cultural, educational and economic life of the Lehigh Valley. Defined by a unique combination of tradition and innovation, our collections, educational partnerships, collaborative and community based programs, and exhibitions are dedicated to inspiring the broadest possible public engagement, access, and service.  For more information please visit AllentownArtMuseum.org. 
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















