






2017: Jonathan Lassiter to launch book on Black LGBT health Jan. 11 | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Jonathan Lassiter to launch book on Black LGBT health Jan. 11


Book co-edited by the assistant professor of psychology focuses on the mental, physical and spiritual aspects of health; launch to take place at Bradbury-Sullivan LGBT Community Center


	 Wednesday, January 4, 2017  09:03 AM

Bradbury-Sullivan LGBT Community Center will host the event on Jan. 11 from 6-8 p.m. The editors—Dr. Jonathan Lassiter, assistant professor of psychology at Muhlenberg College, and Dr. Lourdes Dolores Follins, a clinical social worker and associate professor at City University of New York—will give a talk and a book signing with Starbucks Coffee will follow.
"Black LGBT Health in the United States: The Intersection of Race, Gender, and Sexual Orientation" focuses on the mental, physical and spiritual aspects of health and considers both risk and resiliency factors for the Black LGBT population. Contributors to this collection intimately understand the associations between health and intersectional anti-Black racism, heterosexism, homonegativity, biphobia, transphobia and social class. This collection fills a gap in current scholarship by providing information about an array of health issues like cancer, juvenile incarceration and depression that affect all subpopulations of Black LGBT people, especially Black bisexual-identified women, Black bisexual-identified me, and Black transgender men. Black LGBT Health in the United States is recommended for readers interested in psychology, health, gender studies, race studies and sociology.
About the editors
Jonathan Mathias Lassiter, Ph.D., is a twenty-first century polymath utilizing psychology, writing and dance to help others heal and thrive. As a clinical psychologist, he specializes in health psychology, spirituality, and multiculturalism. He is assistant professor of psychology at Muhlenberg and resident choreographer at Psychosomatic Dance.
Lourdes Dolores Follins, Ph.D., LCSW is a clinical social worker and an associate professor at City University of New York. For over 25 years, Follins has worked as a psychotherapist, an organizational consultant and a behavioral scientist. Her research and clinical interests are resilience in LGBTQ people of color; decision making in young gay men of color; health disparities facing LGBTQ people of color around the world; and the experiences of historically underrepresented faculty at community colleges.
The event is co-sponsored by Comfort Suites Allentown and Starbucks at the Promenade Shops at Saucon Valley. For details on the event, and to RSVP, visit the Bradbury-Sullivan LGBT Community Center website.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















