






2017: Muhlenberg College Career Center receives professional development suite funding from George I. Alden Trust | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg College Career Center receives professional development suite funding from George I. Alden Trust



The George I. Alden Trust has awarded Muhlenberg college with a $100,000 grant, allowing the Career Center to advance with the development of a new professional development media suite. 


By:

 

  Victoria Marsala '17  


	 Wednesday, February 22, 2017  09:42 AM

Pictured: Artists' rendering of the upgraded Career Center facilities (courtesy of Alloy5 Architecture)
 
The funding will be used to upgrade existing facilities and technology to allow for a more flexible work area where students, alumni, faculty, parents and the campus community can access virtual programs.
Muhlenberg places emphasis on providing opportunities to help students achieve post-graduation success and meet their career and life goals. In recent year, the The Career Center has undertaken several initiatives to strengthen student and alumni engagement, including the debut of The Muhlenberg Network, a digital platform where students can search for job and internship opportunities and easily connect with alumni mentors based on their career and research interests. In the first two months of the platform’s release, over 600 alumni joined and 380 former Mules were willing to act as formal mentors to students.
The Alden Trust grant will assist with the establishment of virtual support and connections, which complements the Career Center’s existing strengths in face-to-face interaction and student consultation. The technology and facilities capital grant will fund interactive high-definition screens, audio equipment and voice-detection video equipment to improve the virtual connections between students and industry professionals, providing students with exposure to a wider variety of mentors.
Muhlenberg’s Career Center already has a strong technological foundation. Currently, the Center uses Symplicity, a customer relationship management system that enables staff to track student activity, mentor interactions, internships and job applications. In addition, a recent collaboration with GradLeaders and their Outcomes Survey product will better track recent graduates’ first opportunities upon graduating, including information beyond just position and starting salary.
This grant is the most recent of many generous contributions from The George I. Alden Trust. The trust has supported multiple needs and initiatives of Muhlenberg, including a 2012 pledge of $125,000 towards a capital renovation project of the third floor organic chemistry laboratory in Trumbower Hall; a 2008 grant towards the renovation of the Theatre Rehearsal House; and a 2005 grant of $150,000 to assist in construction of the New Science Building.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















