






2017: Muhlenberg College ranked among nation's best undergraduate accounting programs | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg College ranked among nation's best undergraduate accounting programs



In their most recent ranking, Accounting.com has placed Muhlenberg College #18 on their list of best bachelors in accounting programs in the US. The recognition affirms the College's accounting reputation, ranking last year at #30.


	 Friday, May 5, 2017  09:02 AM

Once again, Muhlenberg has been ranked among the top 50 universities for best accounting programs, which includes handpicked colleges and universities. Each college is selected based on competitive graduation rates, reputations and curriculum standards. The school rankings are based upon data collected by the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System and College Navigator, two sources managed by the National Center for Education Statistics.
"Accounting at Muhlenberg is a process of academic and professional development that integrates coursework, workplace experience and opportunities for leadership," said Trevor Knox, associate professor of accounting and economics. "Our students draw on faculty expertise and support to set and achieve goals that extend beyond graduation."
Muhlenberg offers several options for undergraduates to fulfill their CPA exam and licensing requirement, along with some non-traditional curriculum approaches. Students who wish to meet the exam-required 150-hour minimum can pursue undergraduate courses through internships, study abroad or a semester in Washington, D.C.
"Alumni tell me that the professional skills they develop in our program are what sets them apart from their peers in the work world," said Paula Irwin, associate professor of accounting and coordinator of Muhlenberg's accounting program. "They specifically mention the work ethic, networking & social skills and advanced techniques, beyond a strong knowledge of accounting."
As stated in the accounting program's mission statement, the accounting curriculum "fosters learning within and beyond the classroom, an appreciation for global interdependence and endeavors to equip students with the ability to formulate and solve problems and to make effective decisions."
Upon graduation, Muhlenberg accounting majors are faced with a diverse range of opportunities and a rising demand for their skills and knowledge in today's economy. Each year, approximately 65 percent of graduating Muhlenberg accounting students are hired by Big Four accounting firms.
More information on Accounting.com's list of colleges and universities with the 50 top accounting programs are available on their website.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















