






2017: Muhlenberg to host annual regional language technology conference  | Muhlenberg College







































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg to host annual regional language technology conference 



The Northeast Association for Language Learning Technology (NEALLT) conference brings together faculty, language center directors and educational technology professionals from the northeastern United States. 


By:

 

  Victoria Marsala '17  


	 Wednesday, March 1, 2017  04:59 PM

The NEALLT 2017 Conference will be held from March 3-5 and is hosted by Dr. Luba Iskold, professor of Russian and director of Language and Culture Commons. The conference is co-sponsored by the department of languages, literatures and cultures, the office of the provost and the associate dean for digital learning. 
The three-day conference will offer an extensive and rich variety of programming, with educators and professionals from more than a dozen institutions hosting each of the informative sessions. The goal of the NEALLT conference is to highlight the connections between research, teaching practices and the exploration of emerging technologies. Educators and professionals will have opportunities to share their work and exchange ideas with colleagues from institutions in the region. Dr. Felix A. Kronenberg, associate professor of modern languages and literatures and the director of the Language Learning Center at Rhodes College in Memphis, TN, will be the keynote speaker at the event.
This year's NEALLT Conference theme is "Learning Environments for Languages and Cultures," and the focus of the event is on setting and how both physical and virtual spaces affect the way we learn. As the host institution, Muhlenberg will debut the new Language and Culture Commons in Ettinger Hall to conference attendees. Over this past summer, the department of languages, literatures and cultures renovated the space to make it a more effective active learning environment.
NEALLT is a professional, non-profit membership organization that strives towards enhancing language instruction through using technology in language departments and resource centers across all education levels. The organization is an official Regional Chapter (encompassing the U.S. states of Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania) of the International Association for Language Learning Technology (IALLT).
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















