






2017: Muhlenberg College Celebrates 10th Anniversary Gospel Weekend Feb. 17-18 | Muhlenberg College








































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 






2017













2017











In the MediaFor the MediaOffice of Communications Latest NewsNews Archive 











Home
News & EventsNews Archive 2017 











Muhlenberg College Celebrates 10th Anniversary Gospel Weekend Feb. 17-18


Weekend festivities include a concert, free and open to the public, on Saturday afternoon.


	 Wednesday, February 1, 2017  11:27 AM

Muhlenberg College will celebrate a decade of gospel tradition and community with its 10th Gospel Workshop Weekend on Feb. 17-18.
The main event of the weekend is the Gospel Choir concert, which will take place in the College's Egner Chapel at 3:30 p.m. on Saturday, Feb. 18. The concert is free and open to the public.
"We're excited to host the 10th Anniversary Gospel Weekend at Muhlenberg College. For the past decade, students, faculty, staff and local community members have been making a joyful noise in Egner Chapel during Gospel Weekend," said Rev. Callista Isabelle, College chaplain. "We hope many will join us for this special 10th anniversary celebration."
The Gospel Weekend concert will be performed under the direction of guest musician Edward "Chief" Menifee, a musician at Morehouse College Chapel in Atlanta. The Gospel Choir is directed by Eric Thompson '10, assistant director of admission at Muhlenberg, who has been involved with the choir since its founding.
Other events being held throughout the weekend include open rehearsals from 4:00-6:00 and 7:30-9:30 p.m. on Friday, and 9:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. (with a break) on Saturday.
Rejoice, the Muhlenberg College Gospel Choir, is a spirit-filled musical ensemble. Comprised of students from various places, races and creeds, the Gospel Choir is truly reflective of the diverse interests and ethnicities within the Muhlenberg College community.
Founded in 1848, Muhlenberg is a highly selective, private, four-year residential, liberal arts college located in Allentown, Pa., approximately 90 miles west of New York City. With an undergraduate enrollment of approximately 2200 students, Muhlenberg College is dedicated to shaping creative, compassionate, collaborative leaders through rigorous academic programs in the arts, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences as well as selected pre-professional programs, including accounting, business, education and public health. A member of the Centennial Conference, Muhlenberg competes in 22 varsity sports. Muhlenberg is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.












 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















