






Dr. Hark's Page | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyFaculty & StaffAmy HarkDr. Hark's Page 






Dr. Hark's Page
















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsBiologyFaculty & StaffAmy HarkDr. Hark's Page 


























 



 
Dr. Amy T. HarkProfessor of Biology Co-Director of Biochemistry
 



Office: 225 New Science Building Email: amyhark@muhlenberg.edu Phone: 484-664-3747 Fax: 484-664-3002
Dr. Amy Hark CV 2020 Education Courses Research
Muhlenberg College Homepage
 

Dr. Hark receiving Empie Award at graduation (2014)

Biology Department Muhlenberg College 2400 Chew Street Allentown, PA 18104



Education B.S., Biology, College of William and Mary, 1994 M.A., Molecular Biology, Princeton University, 1997 Ph.D., Molecular Biology, Princeton University, 2000 Postdoctoral Research, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, 2001-2004 Courses BIO 118 Concepts of Biology: Genes, Genomics, and Society In this course, the impact of genetic and genomic information on both individuals and various aspects of society is considered, with a particular focus on human health and disease. The course begins with an introduction to human genetics, which will serve as background for discussion of many conditions that have a genetic basis as well as consideration of medical and other uses of human (and other organisms') genome sequence information. This course is designed for non-science majors who have an interest in the human condition. It is intended to equip students to better appreciate and evaluate medical and other scientific issues raised in the news and popular press. In addition to learning the underlying biology, much emphasis will also be placed on discussion of related societal, ethical, and policy topics.  BIO 152 Principles of Biology III: Molecules and Cells This course seeks to explore life at the molecular and cellular levels. Topics covered are Mendelian and molecular genetics including the central dogma as well as basic biochemistry of cells, including structure and function of nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. Cellular organelles will be examined with respect to their roles in physiology and energetics. Technological applications of molecular and cellular biology will also be discussed.
BIO 283 Wearing Our Genes: DNA and Determinism (linked with Religion Studies course, together exploring The Changing Human Condition) In this course, we will review foundational background in genetics and new approaches to investigating our DNA while asking questions about the potential of our genome to define who we are. We will consider how scientific advances are made and utilized in this course designed for non-science majors to help fulfill the SC general academic requirement. I hope to encourage you to consider science as a process that all can engage in and to recognize the role of science in your lives and in society.BIO 220 BiochemistryBiochemistry represents the study of organisms, cells, and cellular components at the chemical and molecular level. In this intermediate-level course we will consider the structure and function of both nucleic acids and proteins, including an introduction to enzyme kinetics and regulation. We will also review carbohydrates and lipids and discuss aspects of metabolism and signal transduction.
This course is intended for science majors who have had an introduction to general and organic chemistry as well as introductory biology (including, but not limited to, topics in genetics and cell biology). It is designed to be of interest to those students who may pursue scientific research as well as those interested in a career in the health professions. Many of the topics discussed and examples used will relate to human health and disease. BIO 472 Genomes and Gene Evolution (GGE)A central question that remains in biology is to understand the relationship between changes at the DNA level and evolution of organismal form and function.  This capstone course connects to that question with a focus on modern comparative and regulatory genomics.  The class emphasizes bioinformatic approaches in genomic science and includes review of primary literature in addition to novel data analysis. Discussions and writing assignments will be centered on student projects in distinct areas of genomics.
FYS 236 Foods, Broods, and Moods: The Impact of Genetics on Society Declarations and questions about science and its connection to individuals and society appear weekly as headline news. However, the real question is what are we taking away from these stories? How does presentation influence our perceptions of what is true or ethical? And how does this affect the choices we make as consumers or citizens? In this course, we will explore the presentation and role of science in our society. Topically, we will focus on the impact of recent genetic advances such as genetically modified food, reproductive and therapeutic technologies including stem cells, and links between genes and behavior. Through weekly readings, writings, and discussions these topics, we will critically and analytically evaluate scientific information in relation to societal, ethical, and policy issues. Research My scientific research interests involve studying the regulation of gene function: how are genes controlled so that they are active only in the appropriate types of cells and developmental stages? In particular, I am interested in how factors such as packaging and modification of DNA into chromatin and genome organization may affect gene expression in eukaryotic organisms.In our "wet-lab" research, we most commonly use the plant Arabidopsis thaliana as an experimental model to explore gene regulation in the context of its effects on development. My research investigates the biological roles of proteins known to covalently modify chromatin structure, including the histone acetyltransferase GCN5 and the associated transcriptional activator ADA2b. Disruption of these genes' functions results in dramatic effects on plant growth and development. On-going research investigating the function of these genes in plants will be carried out using a variety of approaches, allowing students to develop projects in the areas of molecular biology, genetics, and developmental biology.
Students in my lab are also engaged in comparative genomics projects that uses in silico (computer-based) analysis to annotate genes in Drosophila species (defining their start/stop sites, exon/intron boundaries, etc.). This work is a collaborative effort of the Genomics Education Partnership (GEP), which has been supported by Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the National Science Foundation. Our lab is beginning to engage with a new project direction within the GEP, with the underlying biological question of how gene regulatory netowrks evolve.
For more information, please see the https://www.muhlenberg.edu/academics/biology/facultystaff/amyhark/drharkspage/theharklabresearchpage/.
 
 Page last updated October 2019.





















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















