






Honors  | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsChemistryAcademic ProgramsHonors  






Honors 














Honors 











Chemistry Honors Seminars











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsChemistryAcademic ProgramsHonors  













Honors in Chemistry
Students may stand for Honors in Chemistry if they maintain an average 3.30 GPA in their chemistry courses, and complete a suitable research project under the mentorship of a faculty member.
The candidate must consult with a faculty member who is willing to act as the faculty research mentor. This consultation and planning stage usually takes place during the candidate's junior year at the College. All students standing for honors must complete the CUE course (CHM 090 and 490) during their last full academic year enrolled at the College. The candidate declares their intent to stand for honors by completing the form below and submitting it to the Chemistry Department Chair no later than January 31 during the spring semester enrolled in the CUE, CHM 490.  
Any candidate standing for Honors in Chemistry must complete at least one course unit (normally more than one unit is needed to make significant progress) of independent study/research while working closely with his/her faculty research mentor. The candidate must submit a research paper one week prior to the oral examination, which is scheduled by the Department.  During the examination, the candidate will present a professional seminar to discuss the results of the work, and then respond to questions from departmental faculty. The oral presentation is normally given during the regularly scheduled Chemistry Seminar.
Based on the quality of writing, merit of the science, responses during oral questioning, and quality of course work, the Department will determine the degree of honors awarded. This could be either none, Honors, or High Honors (note that High Honors is rarely awarded). The candidate will be notified of the results by the Chemistry Department Chair.
Intention to Stand for Honors in Chemistry



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















