






Miller Linda | Muhlenberg College






















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu















Faculty Profiles























Linda  MillerAssociate Professor, EnglishDirector, Creative WritingEnglish Literatures & WritingMain Campus > Baker Center for the Arts > 247484-664-3316lindamiller@muhlenberg.edu
Education

M.F.A., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
B.A., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

Teaching Interests
I currently teach creative writing classes, primarily in fiction and nonfiction prose. My courses focus on the process of writing and on developing a vibrant writing community. Students are encouraged to explore new terrain, to experiment with narrative form and play with words, sentences and paragraphs. I teach through "modeling" and practice: students read both contemporary and classic pieces, all of which offer a wide range of styles and skills. Students then create a 'tool box' of techniques which they will use in their own work. Students share their writing in various formats: small group peer workshops, class workshops and one-on-one conferences.My teaching is not limited to the traditional classroom. I teach creative writing classes at the Lehigh County Corrections Center where both Muhlenberg students and incarcerated people help each other improve their writing skills and share their diverse experiences. I team-teach three MILA courses, one in northern Italy, one in western Ireland and another along the Potomac River in Maryland, DC, Virginia and West Virginia. These courses begin on campus and then culminate in 2-3 weeks of travel . Every three years, I also team-teach Living Writers, where six established writers come to campus and teach us about their latest work, their writing process and their life as a writer.
Research, Scholarship or Creative/Artistic InterestsI am interested in narrative prose and have written numerous short stories and essays. My work investigates what it means to live in our complicated world, how we struggle to negotiate the demands upon us and to "do the right thing," not always successfully.


Courses Taught Include:Advanced Fiction Workshop: Dana Scholars Directed Studies: Fiction Portfolio: Fiction Tutorial: Introduction to Creative Nonfiction Writing: Introduction to Fiction Writing: Solitary Voice: Theatre/Creative Writing-Ireland: Spc Top: Ireland Writing Workshop: Spc Top: This Land is Your Land: Potomac: Spc:Masterclass Creative Writing: 
College Honors & Awards
Muhlenberg College Advisor of the Year Award
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts Grant in Literature for Short Fiction
National Society of Arts & Letters Career Award for Short Fiction 
Communities in Schools of the Lehigh Valley Distinguished Partner Award. 

Recent Publications, Presentations & Abstracts
Faculty advisor for the Muhlenberg Academic Review, an interdisciplinary journal of student essays. The journal's first edition was May 2018. 
Faculty sponsor for Sigma Tau Delta, the English honorary society. Every year, I work with students on their submissions for the national conference, where we have won awards in academic fields, plus fiction and poetry.


Go Back to Search >>



















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 


















