






Special Interest | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
Student LifeGetting InvolvedClubs & OrganizationsSpecial Interest 






List of Organizations














Special Interest











Club Recognition Policy List of OrganizationsMeetings/Events/PoliciesFormsWMUH Radio Station











Home
Student LifeGetting InvolvedClubs & OrganizationsSpecial Interest 









View Student Organizations:

Select from list
Academic
Academic Honor Society
Advocacy
Campus Ministry
Community Engagement
Cultural Identity
Fraternities & Sororities
Inactive Student Organizations
Media
Performance
Special Interest






Special Interest 
If you would like to contact/ get information about any of these organizations, please email studentactivities@muhlenberg.edu

Anime Club
 
Be Your Own Boss (BYOB) - Entrepreneurship Club
The object and purpose of BYOB shall be engaging students in entrepreneurship by forming a community through holding club meetings and hosting various types of events. We strive to provide students of all majors and backgrounds with tools to stimulate their entrepreneurial side, as well as giving our members the opportunity to incorporate an entrepreneurial mindset within their everyday lives.
 
Chess Club
 
Comic Book Club
Dedicated to the viewing and discussing of comic books/graphic novels and comic book/graphic novel related media on a weekly basis. Comic book related activities including trips to films and conventions are also included. Open to everyone of all levels of experiences with comics with members always looking to help bring completely new fans in! 
 
 
Debate Club
Debate Club consists of both intercollegiate debate and dialogue across campus. We hope to instill an understanding of argumentative construction into each of our members.
 
Flour Power Baking Club
The Flour Power Baking Club is a club dedicated to teaching students how to improve their baking skills. We meet several times throughout the semester to teach people how to use different icing tips, baking ware, and how to make delicious treats. We use these skills to organize bake sales that display our talents and benefit the local food bank. This is a sweet club for anyone who wants to learn how to bake and help out the community. 
 
Garden Club (Community Garden)
The Muhlenberg Community garden is curated and maintained in the spring, summer and fall by the Muhlenberg Garden Club. The garden is home to a collection of sustainability initiatives in addition to the vegetables and flowers grown there such as the composting program, rainwater collection tanks, and the permaculture garden, which is home to a collection of local plants and herbs.
Follow us!
Facebook: Muhlenberg Community Garden
 
Jewelry Making Club
Teaches members the skills to create jewelry out of metal.
Follow us!
Facebook: Muhlenberg Jewels
 
Mock Trial 
Mock Trial is a competitive organization that trains students to compete in national competitions against other colleges and universities from all over the country. The club teaches valuable skills such as knowledge of the law, public speaking, debate, acting, and collaboration. This team is far from being just for aspiring lawyers, the skills developed are useful to anyone and everyone. 
Follow us!
Facebook: Muhlenberg-College-Mock-Trial
 
Muhlenberg Beekeeping Society
A club dedicated to the education of the student body on the traditions of beekeeping, the anatomy of bees, and their importance to the ecosystem.
Follow us!
Facebook: BergBeekeeping
Instagram: @bergbeekeeping
 
Muhlenberg Board Game Association
To foster a casual environment for students to relax from the stress of the week by playing board games with other like minded people. To promote a sense of community and development through paying various games together.
 
Volleyball League, Intramural
Muhlenberg College's Intramural Volleyball League is a casual and friendly environment that provides a relaxing outlet for exercise and physical activity for the Muhlenberg community. Players of all skill levels are welcome and we aim to help improve the skill levels and community of everyone who wishes to join.
Follow us!
Facebook: Intramural Volleyball at Muhlenberg
 


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















