






Special Programs | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsAccounting, Business, Economics and FinanceSpecial Programs 






Special Programs














Special Programs











Accounting Business Economics Finance Faculty & StaffInternshipsSpecial ProgramsABEF Colleagues from Former Years











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsAccounting, Business, Economics and FinanceSpecial Programs 












Education Abroad In addition to Muhlenberg's traditional education abroad programs, an international program has been designed especially for students enrolled in accounting, business, economics and finance. The program is offered through the Center for European Studies at the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands and would generally be taken during the fall semester of the junior year (but fall semester enrollment during the senior year is possible). In this program, students attend courses in European business, economics, and politics, taught in English. Besides deepening global and cultural awareness, students have opportunities to travel to France, Belgium, and Germany, all of which are less than thirty minutes away, and meet business and political leaders from those countries. Participating students take three courses as a cohort and, additionally, individually enroll in a fourth course selected from the University of Maastricht's regular (English language) course offerings. The three commonly enrolled courses have been approved by the faculty as Muhlenberg courses. These courses are listed below with the department's other regular course offerings. All business or economics courses enrolled by participating students may be used to satisfy major requirements. Early consultation with your faculty advisor is encouraged. Visit the Education Abroad website for more information.

Semester in Washington, D.C. Students who select this program have opportunities for accounting internships with public accounting firms, banks, government agencies, and not-for-profit organizations. In addition to the internship experience, the program includes seminars and field trips drawing on the special cultural and political resources available in Washington. Participants also experience living and working in our capital with students from other Lutheran colleges throughout the United States. Students frequently opt for this program during their junior or senior year or during the summer months.
Accounting: 150 Semester Hour Options Many students choose to earn their bachelor degree in accounting at Muhlenberg while simultaneously taking additional coursework to earn a certificate of 150 semester hours of education. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and most state boards of accountancy require 150 semester hours of education prior to licensure as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). With this option, students graduate with an accounting major with additional course units beyond the requirements for graduation. They accomplish this by taking internships for credit or additional courses during the summer or by enrolling in extra courses during the academic year. Students who desire to be licensed in Pennsylvania may chose from a broad range of courses. Those who plan to be licensed in a state other than Pennsylvania must carefully research and plan their coursework to meet licensing requirements in the state of their choice. Muhlenberg also has an articulation agreement with Lehigh University's Master of Science in Accounting and Information Analysis program. This allows students who carefully plan their coursework at Muhlenberg and who have strong academic records to be admitted into Lehigh's program as a fifth year of education.

Accounting: Internship and Mentoring Opportunities The Accounting, Business, and Economics Department has an extensive internship program that provides accounting majors with a wide range of opportunities to gain valuable work experience. Internships may be taken during the summer or during the students' junior or senior years and are available with Big Four professional services firms, regional CPA firms, major corporations, and local businesses. Mentoring opportunities also exist with alumni, members of local professional organizations, and Big Four firms.
 Students who plan to complete the 150 hour requirement, study abroad, or participate in other special programs are encouraged to enroll ACT 101 Financial Accounting during the spring semester of their first year at Muhlenberg.


























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















