






Musical Theatre Training | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramThe Dance CurriculumMusical Theatre Training 






Musical Theatre Training
One benefit of studying in the Department of Theatre and Dance? If you want to pursue both, you've got it made.












Musical Theatre Training












Dance Auditions & Interviews

Meet Our Dancers (Video!)

Performances & Photos

Explore the Dance Curriculum

Faculty & Staff Directory & Bios

Guest Artists in Dance

Dance Facilities (Video!)

Meet Our Alumni

Admissions & Financial Aid

Mission & Learning Goals

Frequently Asked Questions

MCDC Dance Classes













Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramThe Dance CurriculumMusical Theatre Training 















Big Shows, Big Opportunities



Interested in musical theatre? You can get excellent training with a degree from the Muhlenberg Theatre & Dance Department. Many of our alumni have gone on to successful careers in musical theatre, including performing and producing on Broadway and in National and International Tours.
We make it easy for you to pursue your passion for the stage. You'll receive in-depth training in acting and dance through the Theatre & Dance Department, and take individual voice lessons and other musical training through the College's excellent Music Department. You can also take advantage of the many performance opportunities on campus:

At least one large-scale musical in the Mainstage Season each year.
Dance theatre collaborative pieces, which are frequently featured in the Mainstage season.
Numerous performing ensembles, including a cappella choruses, the College Choir, comedy improv troupes, several touring dance ensembles, and theatre ensembles that perform in area schools and community centers.
Studio Productions and Third-Tier Productions, presented by the student-run Muhlenberg Theatre Association, give you the opportunity to create your own projects. The MTA offers 15 to 20 of these productions each year. Past productions have included both established musicals and new musicals composed by students.

Students who wish to pursue musical theatre training have several options available to them, including but not limited to the following:

Major in Theatre and minor in both Dance and Music.
Double major in Theatre and Dance, with additional vocal instruction and other music classes.
Double major in Theatre and Music, with additional studio dance classes in tap, jazz and modern.

Your academic advisor can help you to select courses that will best meet your needs and interests.














MORE ABOUT THE DANCE CURRICULUM



 

Curriculum Landing Page






 

The Dance Major






 

The Dance Minor






 

Dual Majors & Multidisciplinary Studies






 

Musical Theatre Training






 

Study Abroad






 










Want to Know More?
Thank you for your interest in Muhlenberg College. This form is for prospective students to request additional information about the Theatre & Dance Department.
 Performance Patrons: to sign up for the mailing list, or to request information other than prospective student info, please the See a Show page, and click Mailing List Signup in the sidebar menu.
Loading...

 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















