






Accessibility | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceSee a Show!Accessibility 






Accessibility
All of Muhlenberg's arts facilities are fully accessible, and we are committed to making all necessary accommodations for all of our patrons and students.












Accessibility











BUY TICKETSCOVID-19 PoliciesMailing List SignupTheatre & Dance Department SeasonSummer Music TheatreDirections & ParkingUsheringAccessibilityGift CertificatesSupport our Mission











Home
Theatre & DanceSee a Show!Accessibility 


















Muhlenberg College and the Theatre & Dance Department are committed to meeting the needs of all of our patrons and students. If you have questions or require additional accommodation, please contact Jess Bien, the General Manager.











          Accessible Seating
  








Requests for wheelchair seating, aisle seats, and front- and back-row seats will be accommodated whenever possible. Barrier-free entrances and accessible restrooms are available at all theatre facilities.
Please note that accessible seating will not always be available at showtime. We strongly recommend that you purchase your tickets in advance, by phone or in person from the box office, and discuss your needs with the box office staff. 
The Empie Theatre has fourteen rows of tiered seats. The main entrance to the Empie from street-level is at the top/back of the seating (Row O), and patrons walk downstairs toward the stage. Wheelchair access is available to the bottom/front row of seats (Row A). Request seats in the lower rows or the last several rows if you are not seated in a wheelchair but have difficulty walking the stairs. If you are visually impaired, request your seats in the front rows of the theatre.
The Baker Theatre has left and right entrances to both the Orchestra section (rows A to L) and the 4-row Balcony section (AA to DD). There is wheelchair access in the front and rear of the Orchestra section and the back of the Balcony. If you are not seated in a wheelchair but have difficulty walking the stairs, request your seats in the front rows or the last several rows of the Orchestra or the back row of the Balcony. If you are visually impaired, request your seats in the front Orchestra rows.
The Studio Theatre and Dance Studio Theatre entrances are accessible from the lowest level of the Trexler Pavilion. Both spaces are general admission seating with wheelchair accessibility. Seats nearest the stage do not require climbing platform risers. Patrons needing special seating are advised to request them from the box office or arrive 30 minutes before the start of the performance to be seated.
Please indicate special needs when reserving your theatre seats.






          Accessible Performances
  








Open Caption & Audio Description
At certain performances, we will present Open Caption and Audio Description service for patrons who request them. At Open Captioned performances, the dialogue and lyrics of the play are displayed on a captioning device at the side of the stage, so that patrons with hearing difficulties can read the words as they watch. At Audio-Described performances, a narrator uses a headset system to describe the action on stage to patrons, to allow those with visual impairments to follow the action of the show. Sponsored in part by the Lehigh Valley Arts Council.
For tickets and information, please contact Jess Bien, General Manager, at boxoffice@muhlenberg.edu or 484-664-3087.
American Sign Language
Certain performances are interpreted in American Sign Language by live interpreters. All patrons are welcome.
Relaxed (Sensory-Friendly) Performances
Every summer, we present at least one performance of the family/youth production in a Relaxed Performance style, for children with Autism Spectrum Disorders and other sensory processing challenges. Lighting and sound will be adapted to minimize sensory impact. Patrons will have easy access to the lobby during the show. Concessions will be available during the show. Patrons are welcome to bring sensory tools, cushions, and quiet manipulatives for use during the performance. Visual guides will be available for download. Events are sponsored by ARCH of Lehigh Valley (Autism Resource Community Hub).
For tickets and information, please contact Jess Bien, General Manager, at boxoffice@muhlenberg.edu or 484-664-3087.






          Adaptive Services
  








Assistive listening devices are available from the box office in the Trexler Pavilion. We offer infrared units with in-ear headphones as well as loop systems that are compatible with hearing aids. Courtesy of the Dexter F. and Dorothy H. Baker Foundation.
Large-print programs are available upon advance request. For Muhlenberg Summer Music Theatre performances, large-print programs are available at the door with no prior notice; simply request one from an usher.
Barrier-free entrances and accessible restrooms are available at all theatre facilities.






          Accessible Parking
  








Accesible parking spaces and drop off/pickup area are available outside of all venues:

Directly outside the Box Office Lobby entrance to the Trexler Pavilion (for the Baker Theatre and Studio Theatre)
On Chew Street, outside the Baker Center for the Arts (for the Empie Theatre)







          Accessibility Information for Students
  








Students with disabilities have access and opportunities to engage in the full range of experiences available to all students at Muhlenberg, including curricular, co-curricular, and extra-curricular activities.
In addition to the audience services listed above, Muhlenberg College and the Theatre & Dance Department maintain a strong commitment to accommodating the needs of our students. Through the Office of Disability Services, we will work with you to implement the most appropriate strategies for a successful learning experience, while maintaining the academic standards and integrity of the mission of the College.





 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















