






Directions & Parking | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceSee a Show!Directions & Parking 






Directions & Parking
Muhlenberg is convenient to mass transit and several major highways.












Directions & Parking











BUY TICKETSCOVID-19 PoliciesMailing List SignupTheatre & Dance Department SeasonSummer Music TheatreDirections & ParkingUsheringAccessibilityGift CertificatesSupport our Mission











Home
Theatre & DanceSee a Show!Directions & Parking 
















Here's our best advice about how to get to Muhlenberg's campus, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and where you can park when you get here. If you need more information, please get in touch!











          Directions
  








Get Here By Car
Follow Interstate 78 (east-west), Interstate 476 (Northeast Extension of the Pennsylvania Turnpike), or U.S. Route 22 to Allentown, getting off at Cedar Crest Boulevard.
From Route 22, take Cedar Crest Boulevard exit south (left) to third traffic light, take a left on Chew Street, and follow Chew Street about one mile to the campus.
From I-78, take the Cedar Crest Boulevard exit north (right) and go six traffic lights. Take a right onto Chew Street and follow Chew Street about one mile to the campus.
The College is at 2400 Chew Street, Allentown, between 23rd and 26th Streets.
Directions from Google Maps  |  Muhlenberg's detailed driving directions
Get Here By Air
Lehigh Valley International Airport is located 15 minutes by car from the Muhlenberg campus. The airport is served by American, Continental, Delta, Northwest, United and US Airways, as well as their "express" extensions. For more information, check the LVIA website or call 800-FLY-LVIA (800-359-5842).
Get Here By Bus
Greyhound and Trans-Bridge Lines have depot facilities in Allentown. Bus service runs from New York City, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., northern and western Pennsylvania, and most major cities.
Greyhound Trans-Bridge
Allentown Bus Terminal Wescosville Park-and-Ride Terminal






          Parking
  








Free parking is provided in campus lots west of the Trexler Pavilion for Theatre and Dance on Chew Street and south and east of the Trexler Library next to the Baker Center. Street parking is also free and permitted where available on Chew Street.
There is a drop-off/pickup area in the circle drive directly outside the Trexler Pavilion lobby and a designated drop-off area on Chew Street below the entrance to the Baker Center for the Arts.
There are handicapped parking spaces reserved for cars with official permits west of the Trexler Pavilion and in the Trexler Library lot nearest to the rear entrance to the Baker Center for the Arts. Both lots are accessible from Chew Street.
Campus Parking Information





 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















