






Mission & Learning Goals | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramMission & Learning Goals 






Mission & Learning Goals
In the tradition of the liberal arts, Muhlenberg's Theatre & Dance Department doesn't just concern itself with training actors, dancers, and designers. We aim to create an environment in which actors, dancers, and designers become thinkers and artists.












Mission & Learning Goals












Dance Auditions & Interviews

Meet Our Dancers (Video!)

Performances & Photos

Explore the Dance Curriculum

Faculty & Staff Directory & Bios

Guest Artists in Dance

Dance Facilities (Video!)

Meet Our Alumni

Admissions & Financial Aid

Mission & Learning Goals

Frequently Asked Questions

MCDC Dance Classes













Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramMission & Learning Goals 



























          Mission
  









The Department of Theatre & Dance develops creative citizens who pursue multiple ways to know and articulate truths about the world through the study and practice of performance. The curriculum melds intensive studio training and substantive critical analysis in the liberal arts tradition.
The departmental production season affords further opportunities for embodied application of artmaking in the public arena. We aim to produce flexible, rigorous artist-thinkers who can contribute to the greater good. Our course offerings and productions embrace diverse aesthetic forms drawn from various performance techniques, historical eras, and cultural traditions.
Collaboration is our core value and the foundation of the program. Faculty, staff, and students join together to create a spirited department characterized by trust, personal responsibility, healthy risk-taking, and mutual respect. Ultimately, the department equips students with the intellectual, artistic, and interpersonal skills to comprehend and adapt to a changing world and in turn remake it as independent thinkers, citizens, and creators.






          Learning Goals
  








Muhlenberg Dance Progrm Learning Goals

1. Train versatile dancers with an expressive range, stylistic versatility, mastery of technique and artistry through:

Providing rigorous physical training
Engaging in multiple technique studies and somatic practices
Understanding of anatomy and kinesiology
Encouraging development of a personal physical understanding

2. Develop artists and thinkers who synthesize diverse knowledge areas through self-directed research in performance, choreography, and scholarly arenas through study of:

multi-faceted curriculum which hones analytical skills and scholarly abilities.
socio-historic perspectives on dance and cultural practices
creative practices within dance composition and writing
analytical theories regarding performance, choreography, dance education, and dance science.

3. Create informed and responsible producers and consumers of dance related technologies.
4. Cultivate resourceful, collaborative, resilient artists, scientists, educators, consumers, participants, and advocates who are able to discern their current and future contributions to dance and society.
 










Want to Know More?
Thank you for your interest in Muhlenberg College. This form is for prospective students to request additional information about the Theatre & Dance Department.
 Performance Patrons: to sign up for the mailing list, or to request information other than prospective student info, please the See a Show page, and click Mailing List Signup in the sidebar menu.
Loading...

 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















