






Admissions & Financial Aid | Muhlenberg College




















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramAdmissions & Financial Aid 






Admissions & Financial Aid
What you need to know about applying to Muhlenberg Theatre & Dance.












Admissions & Financial Aid












Dance Auditions & Interviews

Meet Our Dancers (Video!)

Performances & Photos

Explore the Dance Curriculum

Faculty & Staff Directory & Bios

Guest Artists in Dance

Dance Facilities (Video!)

Meet Our Alumni

Admissions & Financial Aid

Mission & Learning Goals

Frequently Asked Questions

MCDC Dance Classes













Home
Theatre & DanceThe Dance ProgramAdmissions & Financial Aid 


















Admission & Auditions
An audition or portfolio review is not required for admission to study in the Department. Any student admitted to Muhlenberg College may declare a major or take classes in the Theatre & Dance Department.
However, students with strong skills are encouraged to audition. A good audition will improve your chances of being admitted to the College, and an audition and interview or portfolio review is required for applicants who wish to be considered for talent-based scholarship awards.
Prospective students are encouraged to visit the campus in order to engage with faculty and students, tour the facilities, visit academic classes, and see the production work. Auditions days are being held virtually during the covid-19 pandemic; we are currently reviewing our plans for the 2021-22 academic year. Ordinarily, audition days are held on campus in October, November, and February. Find out more. 
Applying to Muhlenberg
Admission to Muhlenberg College is highly competitive. For detailed information about college admission, please visit the Muhlenberg Admissions website.
If you are sure that you want to attend Muhlenberg, we encourage you to apply early decision. If you are planning to apply Early Decision 1 and you wish to hold an interview and audition, you should do so by Dec. 1.
Financial Aid
The Office of Financial Aid at Muhlenberg is designed to be a resource for families of all income levels. In addition to the College's student aid funds, the Department offers the following special financial aid programs.
The Baker Scholarships in the Arts and Muhlenberg Talent Grants award from $1,000 to $4,000 per year on the basis of an audition and/or interview with the staff of the department and references from theatre or dance teachers. These scholarships are renewable on the basis of continued participation in the programs of the Department of Theatre and Dance.
Students who qualify for a Work-Study grant may apply for a work-study position in the administrative office, scene shop, or costume shop. These grants are awarded in return for up to ten hours work per week as a carpenter, electrician, stitcher, box office associate, marketing associate, or dance studio assistant. Students interested in a work-study position should contact General Manager Jess Bien at the very beginning of the semester: bien@muhlenberg.edu or 484-664-3087.






Want to Know More?
Thank you for your interest in Muhlenberg College. This form is for prospective students to request additional information about the Theatre & Dance Department.
 Performance Patrons: to sign up for the mailing list, or to request information other than prospective student info, please the See a Show page, and click Mailing List Signup in the sidebar menu.
Loading...

 






















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 





















