






Russell James | Muhlenberg College






















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu















Faculty Profiles























James  RussellAssistant Professor, StatisticsMathematics & Computer ScienceTrumbower Science Building484-664-4087jrussell@muhlenberg.edu
Education

Ph.D., Pennsylvania State University
B.A., College of the Holy Cross

Teaching Interests
I teach several of the statistics courses that the math department offers at Muhlenberg. In teaching statistics, I believe it is important to focus on both the mathematical foundations of statistical theory and the real-world applicability of statistical analysis. In my classes, I work to incorporate real-world examples, to expose students to real data sets through hands-on experience using technology and modern statistical software and to collaborate with others on analytical projects.
Research, Scholarship or Creative/Artistic InterestsI enjoy working on any project that involves developing novel statistical tools to model complex real-world systems. I am particularly interested in Bayesian modeling and spatial statistics.  Most of my work focuses on modeling animal movement. This work is useful for understanding how animals interact with each other and the environment and can help prevent the spread of disease. Other recent work includes predicting voter turnout, using tools from spatial statistics to measure gerrymandering, predicting outcomes for fourth-down decisions in football, assessing technology use in the classroom, determining the relationship between legislation and employment for individuals with disabilities, studying tick-borne pathogens in the Lehigh Valley and understanding radon awareness in local communities.I'm always happy to collaborate on interesting projects, so please reach out to me if you want to talk about research projects using statistics!


Courses Taught Include:CUE: Directed Research - Biomarker Prediction: Statistical Analysis: Statistical Models: Statistical Tools for Analytics: 
Recent Publications, Presentations & Abstracts
Edwards, M. J., Russell, J. C., Davidson, E. N., Yanushefski, T. J., Fleischman, B. L., Heist, R. O., ... and Suppan, L. M. (2019). A 4-Yr Survey of the Range of Ticks and Tick-Borne Pathogens in the Lehigh Valley Region of Eastern Pennsylvania. Journal of Medical Entomology, 56(4), 1122-1134.
Russell, J. C., Hanks, E. M., Haran, M., and Hughes, D. (2018). A spatially varying stochastic differential equation model for animal movement. The Annals of Applied Statistics, 12(2), 1312-1331.
Russell, J. C., Hanks, E. M., Modlmeier, A. P., and Hughes, D. P. (2017). Modeling collective animal movement through interactions in behavioral states. Journal of Agricultural, Biological and Environmental Statistics, 22(3), 313-334.
Russell, J. C., Hanks, E. M., and Haran, M. (2016). Dynamic models of animal movement with spatial point process interactions. Journal of Agricultural, Biological and Environmental Statistics, 21(1), 22-40.



Go Back to Search >>



















Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 


















