






Student Jobs | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterStudent Jobs 






Student Jobs














Student Jobs











Meet the StaffPeer TutoringAcademic CoachingCourse WorkshopsPeer MentoringTips for College SuccessTechnology ToolboxCampus ResourcesStudent Jobs











Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterStudent Jobs 











ARC offers a number of employment opportunities for Muhlenberg students which are meant to support their professional development.
Work-Study
Work-study staff the ARC front desk and support all operations. Applicants must have federal work-study eligibility determined by financial aid and will be alerted to openings at the start of the fall semester.
Peer Tutor
Peer tutors work with students individually and in small groups to better understand course content. Applicants must receive a faculty nomination from within the subject area, meet specific GPA and course grade criteria, and complete an introductory training prior to employment. Students receiving a faculty nomination will automatically receive an application from Monica Cocca. Applications are accepted in the fall and spring semesters.
Head Tutor
Head tutors facilitate training and create opportunities for ongoing education and professional development. Head tutors also oversee and mentor a cohort of approximately 20 assigned tutors. Students must be certified Level I tutors before they are eligible to apply for this position. Students should speak with Monica Cocca about their interest. Applications are only accepted in the spring semester.
Transition Mentor
Transition mentors facilitate learning skills workshops and work with students individually to improve their approaches to learning. Students must be certified Level I tutors before they are eligible to apply for this position. Students should speak with Mary Beth Kallen about their interest. Applications are only accepted in the spring semester.
Learning Assistant
Learning assistants help students deepen their understanding of core course concepts and develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Students must be certified Level I tutors before they are eligible for this position. Learning assistants must complete a one-unit course on cognitive development in the fall semester concurrent with the start of their employment. Students should speak with Monica Cocca about their interest to begin the vetting process. With only 25 total positions each semester, the selection process is highly competitive. Our decisions are based on a variety of factors including but not limited to: overall and major GPA, the in-person interview, strength of faculty recommendations, past job performance, and communication skills relevant to the position. Because each faculty partner works so closely with their assigned learning assistant, their recommendations are heavily weighted in making our final decision. Ultimately, we select candidates with the highest ratings across all factors.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















