






Campus Resources | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterCampus Resources 






Campus Resources














Campus Resources











Meet the StaffPeer TutoringAcademic CoachingCourse WorkshopsPeer MentoringTips for College SuccessTechnology ToolboxCampus ResourcesStudent Jobs











Home
AcademicsAcademic Support & ResourcesAcademic Resource CenterCampus Resources 











There are a variety of campus resources which exist to promote social and academic transition, involvement, integration, support, and development.
Peer Supports
Course-specific workshops are available for a variety of gateway courses. They are facilitated by learning assistants or peer tutors who meet weekly with the course instructor. Workshops are designed to promote critical thinking and problem solving.
Peer tutors are available for weekly individual or small-group appointments through the academic resource center. Tutors help students take a more active role in their own learning.
Peer language tutors from the academic resource center are available for drop-in through the language commons for conversation practice.
Writing assistants are embedded within all First-Year Seminars and support the development of students’ written expression.
Writing tutors are available for walk-in appointments through the writing center.
Transition mentors conduct first-year workshops to help students more quickly acclimate to faculty expectations and the demands of the college classroom. Topics include: time management, college-level reading, note-taking, memory, test-taking, and exam preparation.
Resident advisors can help students develop independent living skills, learn to negotiate conflicts, and find their place within the Muhlenberg community.
Department Resources
Classroom instructors can help students navigate course expectations and develop skills necessary for success in the discipline. Most faculty post their office hours on the syllabus.
Faculty advisors can help students in their course selection, navigate the registration process, make schedule changes, understand the requirements of the curriculum, and explore their major of interest.The Office of
The Office of Pre-Professional Advising provides support for students and alumni preparing for careers in law, medicine, and the health professions.
The Academic Resource Center provides support for students’ academic transition, engagement, integration, growth and achievement through a holistic, community-based approach. Services include: transition workshops for first-year students; course-specific workshops; individual and small-group tutoring; and academic coaching.
The Office of Disability Services provides disability determination, accommodation planning, and academic coaching to ensure an accessible campus and learning environment.
The Writing Center can help students improve their writing across the curriculum. This may include the interpretation of assignments, development of a thesis statement, and organization of written assignments.
Reference librarians in Trexler Library can help students as they navigate an extensive array of physical and electronic resources that support their learning, research activities, and ongoing education.
The The Career Center can help students clarify their values and interests, explore their long-term aspirations, and find opportunities that will contribute to their professional development.
The Health Center provides a variety of health and wellness services including clinical exams and laboratory services.
Counseling Services provides brief therapeutic support in addressing a variety of mental health concerns which could impact academic performance and overall wellbeing. From common social and emotional concerns that all students face to conditions such as anxiety and depression, Counseling Services can help students build self-awareness and agency.
The Chaplain's Office provides students from all religious faiths and beliefs with confidential counsel on a variety of religious and personal concerns.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















