






James Maroney | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicMeet our Faculty & StaffJames Maroney 






James Maroney














James Maroney











Ted ConnerAndrew ArdizzoiaKassandra HartfordChristopher JacksonPaul MurphyVincent Trovato











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicMeet our Faculty & StaffJames Maroney 











James Maroney 
Voice,Tenor
Dr. Maroney is Associate Professor of Music at East Stroudsburg University, where has served as Director of Choral and Vocal Activities. He has previously served on the faculties of Western Carolina University, University of New Haven, Post University, and Naugatuck Valley Community College.
Dr. Maroney has concertized extensively in recital and oratorio, having performed 15 different full solo recital programs at ESU and Western Carolina University, in addition to many others prior. He has performed over 30 operatic roles, most recently with Pennsylvania Lyric Opera as Beppe in Pagliacci, Gherardo in Gianni Schicchi, Khadja in The Merry Widow, Gaston in La Traviata, and Benoit in La Bohème, as well as Kaspar in the St. John’s Music Series production of Amahl and the Night Visitors. He has served as President of the Lehigh Valley Chapter of the National Association of Teachers of Singing as well as the Pennsylvania Collegiate Choral Association.
As a grant recipient of the President’s Research Fund at ESU, in Fall 2007 Dr. Maroney gave several lecture-recital performances of Schumann’s Dichterliebe and Copland’s Twelve Poems of Emily Dickinson. He is one of the foremost authorities on music for voice and classical guitar, having authored a book on the subject, Music for Voice and Classical Guitar, 1945-1996, as well as an article in Journal of Singing. He was awarded a grant in 2006 through the Pennsylvania Faculty Professional Development Council to perform concerts of that genre at various colleges in Pennsylvania and Connecticut. While on the faculty at Western Carolina University, he received a grant to give several lecture-recital performances of Schubert's song cycle Die schöne Müllerin in the Southeast U.S.
Dr. Maroney most recently published an article in the jazz magazine The Note that featured a biography and interview with Jamie Fagan, one of the most widely recorded and successful “jingles” vocalists of the 1960s. He was granted a sabbatical leave in 2013 and an award through the Pennsylvania Faculty Professional Development Council to conduct research for an article and public lecture-recital about the opera arias of George Frideric Handel written specifically for the tenor John Beard during the composer’s years at Covent Garden.

























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















