






Daniel Boring | Muhlenberg College






































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicMeet our Faculty & StaffDaniel Boring 






Daniel Boring














Daniel Boring











Ted ConnerAndrew ArdizzoiaKassandra HartfordChristopher JacksonPaul MurphyVincent Trovato











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsMusicMeet our Faculty & StaffDaniel Boring 













Daniel Boring 
Instructor of Music

Background B.M., State University of New York at Buffalo; M.M., Ithaca College School of Music
Classical guitarist and lutenist, is a native of Western New York where he received performance degrees from the State University of New York at Buffalo and the Ithaca College School of Music.  At Muhlenberg College, Mr. Boring directs the Muhlenberg College Chamber Orchestra, teaches Music Theory, and is instructor of Classical/Acoustic Guitar and Historical/Plucked Instruments. Mr. Boring made his European debut in Rome, Italy in 1995 where he participated as chamber artist with the Rome festival orchestra and ballet troupe.  Return engagements throughout Italy include performances with the Opera Theatre of Lucca as chamber artist and orchestral member.  Mr. Boring currently performs frequently as soloist and in chamber music as an active member of Due Colori, a soprano/guitar-lute duo with fellow Muhlenberg faculty member Megan Monaghan.    Active as a performer of early music as a continuo player on lute, theorbo, and baroque guitar, Mr. Boring recently served as the Executive Director of Cincinnati Baroque and currently performs with the Philadelphia Bach Festival Orchestra.   A 2002-2003 faculty research grant was awarded to Daniel by the University of Louisville to pursue study and research of baroque guitar literature in Los Angeles with world-renowned baroque scholar James Tyler.
He has made significant contributions to guitar literature by commissioning and premiering new works for guitar solo, guitar with flute, guitar with voice, and additionally being an active transcriptionist of diverse media to the guitar. In addition to being in demand as soloist, continuo player, clinician, and adjudicator, Mr. Boring served as Director of Classical Guitar Studies at the University of Louisville School of Music from 1999-2005.  He also has held  additional appointments on the Preparatory Departments of the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music and the University of Louisville, where he taught chamber music and applied lessons.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















