






Incident Reporting | Muhlenberg College






















































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu























Home
WebappsIncident Reporting 






Incident Reporting
















Home
WebappsIncident Reporting 



























Do not use these forms to report events presenting an emergency and/or immediate threat to life or property. If presented with such circumstances or if you require emergency assistance, please contact Campus Safety at 484-664-3110 or dial 911.
At Muhlenberg, students', faculty, and staff health and well-being and the safety of our community are of the utmost importance.  As such, we have a variety of resources, report mechanisms, policies and procedures that guide how we handle difficult, concerning or inappropriate situations within our community.  Below, you will find information related to these topics, as well as links to report forms for each.  If you are aware of any information that should be reported within our community, please do so, using the appropriate form.We encourage filling out the reporting forms with as much information as possible. Our ability to respond to a situation is limited to the amount of information provided.Finally, false reporting and retaliation are very serious violations of College policy.  If an individual makes a false report or takes negative action towards a reporter, that individual may face consequences under the Student Code of Conduct, staff handbook, or faculty handbook.  
Any questions about the reporting forms may be directed to the Dean of Students office at 484-664-3182, M-F 8:30am-5:00pm.







Student Concerns Reporting Form


Use this form to report non-urgent and concerning observed student behavior. This information is used to help the college provide the necessary support and resources to students in distressing and difficult situations or displaying concerning behavior within the community.

Aggression
Depression
Drugs/alcohol
Self injurious behavior
Financial issues
Unusual behavior



 Report Â»





Student Academic Issue Reporting Form


Course instructors, use this form to report academic difficulty that might require additional attention from the Assistant Dean of Academic Life. The information provided will be used to determine best ways of supporting and intervening as necessary with students in distress.

Poor or inconsistent attendance
Late or missing assignments
Low participation or engagement
Quiz or exam grades of D or F
Disruptive behavior in the classroom



 Report Â»







Discrimination, Harassment, Retaliation or Bias Incident Reporting Form about Students


Use this form to report a non-urgent incident involving bias. A bias incident is an act of hostility motivated by bias toward a protected class such as race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender expression, national origin, or disability.

Harassment
Vandalism
Graffiti
Violence 
Verbal attack



Report Â»






Discrimination, Harassment, Retaliation or Bias Incident Reporting Form about Faculty/Staff


Use this form to report a non-urgent incident involving bias. A bias incident is an act of hostility motivated by bias toward a protected class such as race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender expression, national origin, or disability.

Harassment
Vandalism
Graffiti
Violence 
Verbal attack



Report Â»








Sexual Harassment or Misconduct, Intimate Partner Violence, Stalking Online and Anonymous Reporting


Use this form to report incidents of sexual misconduct and behavior that violate Title IX.

Dating and domestic violence
Gender-based discrimination
Retaliatory Harassment
Sexual harassment
Sexual assault
Stalking



Report Â»






General Incident Reporting Form


Use this form to report general incidents of misconduct. Incidents include, but are not limited to:

Alcohol use
Drug use
Housing policy violations
Physical assault
Organizational violations
Hazing incidents
Disruptive behavior



 Report Â»

















Explore This Section





Academic Life



Campus Safety



Counseling Center



Dean of Students Office



Disability Services



Health Center



Human Resources



International Support Services



Multicultural Life (including LGBTQIA support)



Religious Life



Residential Life



Title IX



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 























