






2007 | Muhlenberg College





































Skip to Main Content





















Muhlenberg College















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give









Menu



















Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and ResearchNews/Events Archive2007 






2007













2007











LanguagesLanguage RequirementPlacement ExamMajors and MinorsFacultyCoursesOnline ResourcesOn-Campus ResourcesLC CommonsStudy AbroadNews and ResearchClubsContact UsAlumniStudent ActivitiesKalliope











Home
AcademicsMajors, Minors & CertificationsLanguages, Literatures and CulturesNews and ResearchNews/Events Archive2007 













Faculty News & Research ~ 2007

December 2007 - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, presented her paper “On the Love of Cobardes and Cuyos: Discourses of Domestic Violence in Nineteenth Century Spain” at the Modern Language Association's annual conference in Chicago in December.
November 2007 - Franz A. Birgel, professor of German and film studies, just returned from Dresden, Germany, where he participated in a film series dedicated to the representation of the 18th-century dramatist Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and his works in films of the Third Reich. He introduced the film "Das Fräulein von Barnhelm" and led a discussion after the screening.
Summer 2007 - Lisa Perfetti, associate professor of French and Director, Faculty Center for Teaching, just had an article published in a special edition of ISLE (Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and the Environment) devoted to ecocriticism and postcolonialism.  The article, which focuses on a novel about Guadeloupe, is entitled “The Postcolonial Land that Needs to Be Loved:  Caribbean Nature and the Garden in Schwarz-Bart’s Pluie et Vent sur Télumée Miracle”.
5/22/07-5/26/07 - Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and Director, Language Learning Center, presented a paper entitled “Online Video Streams: Theoretical and Practical Considerations of Using Newscasts” at the national Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALICO) annual symposium, Texas State University. The paper discussed the pros and cons associated with the integration of online newscasts into FL curricula and how cognitive and sociocultural views of comprehension lead to the design of effective learning environments. Link to Conference website.
5/19/07 Channel 69 News - Erika M. Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, was interviewed by Channel 69 News regarding immigration policies. Read More
5/17/07  “El Hispano” - The May 15 issue has a story about the ecumenical vigil to support immigrants and comprehensive immigration reform. Erika Sutherland, associate professor of Spanish, is quoted and helped congregations of all faiths and denominations to discuss the issues facing Hispanics and other immigrants. 
4/10/07 - Flor Maria Buitrago, visiting lecturer in Spanish, is featured on Channel 69 in a segment about Easton Police officers taking Spanish lessons. Read More
5/4/07 -  Luba Iskold, associate professor of Russian and Director of the Language Learning Center, had a book chapter, "Research-based Listening Tasks for Video Comprehension," accepted for publication. It will appear in the "Handbook of Research on Computer Enhanced Language Acquisition and Learning" published by Information Science Publishing, IRM Press, Australia.
4/17/07 - Jamie Doran, Accounting/Business/Economics, Diane Follet, Music, and Kathryn Wixon, Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, presented "C'est si bon:  Bach and Balance Sheets - An Examination of Skill-Building Pedagogies" at the Lilly-East Conference on College & University Teaching held at the University of Delaware this past weekend.  As part of the presentation, participants learned and performed Latin rhythms in an interactive demonstration of the pedagogy of skill-building developed by Doran, Follet, and Wixon.  The project was the result of a two-summer collaboration supported by an Innovative Teaching Grant from the Faculty Center for Teaching. 
4/10/07 -  Erika M. Sutherland , associate professor of Spanish, Languages, Literatures and Cultures, received the award of "Professional of the Year" in El Torero Spanish Newspaper's "Los Favoritos del Pueblo" contest. The award, based on public nominations and letters of support for Sutherland's education and advocacy efforts on behalf of Latino and Hispanic immigrant communities, was presented by City Councilman Julio Guridy.
3/14/07 -  Joan F. Marx, professor of Spanish, presented the paper, "Voces salvadorenos de paz y de guerra: El discurso nacional de los derechos humanos en las obras de Mario Bencastro y Manlio Argueta," while attending the VI Congreso Internacional de Literatura Hispanica in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. She also served as the moderator of her panel, "Identidad y conciencia historico-politica hispanoamericana."
3/14/07 -  Mirna Trauger, visiting lecturer of Spanish, presented the paper, "Los signos picturicos en La llegada de Jose Luis Gonzalez y la identidad puertorriquena," while attending the VI Congreso Internacional de Literatura Hispanica in Playa del Carmen, Mexico.



























Muhlenberg College










Muhlenberg College
2400 Chew St.
Allentown, 
PA
18104







484-664-3100








Maps & Directions





Accessibility





Library




Title IX





Employment





A-Z Index





Conference & Event Services





Diversity & Inclusion






Weather Update








Social








Facebook








Instagram








Twitter








YouTube








LinkedIn








							©
													
 Muhlenberg College











Muhlenburg College










Search














Who We Are











Diversity and Inclusion




Institutional Initiatives




Office of the President




College History




Campus Map




Directory Search






Admissions











Explore Your Visit Options




Early Decision




Regular Decision




Transfer Students




International Students




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Graduate Studies




Tuition and Fees




Financial Aid




First-Year Experience






Academics











Majors, Minors & Certifications




Adult Accelerated & Evening Programs




Summer Study




Graduate Programs




Preprofessional Programs




Academic Partnerships




Honors Programs




Global Education




Our Faculty




Research & Scholarship






Student Life











Housing




Dining




Getting Involved




Athletics




Student Services




Health & Wellness




Religious & Spiritual Life






Powerful Outcomes











The Career Center




Fellowships & Postgraduate Awards




The Muhlenberg Network
















Visit









Apply









Request Info









Give







Info For:




Current Students





Alumni & Friends





Faculty & Staff





Parents









News





Events





Athletics




Arts








COVID-19 Info



 
 
 
















